---
author: admin
category: page
created: '2018-02-01'
layout: page
redirect_from: [/node/547/, /workshops/wpi9/outline/]
tags: []
title: Ninth Workshop on the Philosophy of Information
---

[Home](/workshops/wpi9/home.html) -- [Call for Abstracts](/workshops/wpi9/call.html) -- [Outline](/workshops/wpi9/outline.html) -- [Program](/workshops/wpi9/program.html) -- [Abstracts](/workshops/wpi9/abstracts.html) -- [Organisation](/workshops/wpi9/pc.html) -- [Travel](/workshops/wpi9/travel.html)

## Workshop description

The contrast between the epistemological and computational problems of
visualisation provides us with a first line of inquiry for exploring
connections between different disciplinary perspectives on visualisation.

For the philosophy of science, the epistemological problem of information
visualisation is the central problem. This problem is concerned with what
visualisation is and how it is used in the sciences. It deals with the nature
of visualisations as a kind of epistemic artefact, and asks how (if at all)
such artefacts are related to the reality they are meant to be related to,
which epistemic role they play, and whether their use in the sciences is
efficient and perhaps even indispensable. The problem of visualisation can be
considered, in this perspective, a sub-species of the problem of scientific
representation.

In this context, questions include: how visualisations represent (Kulvicki
2010, Bolinska 2016), how they can be used to reason “by proxy” about a system
they represent (Suàrez 2004, Contessa 2007), or whether visualisations can
generate or convey insights or results that could not, or at least not as
easily, be obtained by non-visual means (de Regt 2014, Mößner 2014, Boumans
2016).

The visualisation sciences, understood as the disciplines within computer
science that are concerned with all aspects of the computer-aided generation
of graphics based on (numerical) data obtained from measurement or simulation
(see e.g. Haber 1990), adopt a different —computational rather than
representational — perspective that cannot as easily be related to what
philosophers of science focus on. When it comes to the topics of insight and
understanding, however, we find a more marked thematic convergence: de Regt
(2014) questions whether visualisation is necessary for understanding, whereas
Chen et al. (2014) challenge the received view that “gaining insight” is the
primary purpose of visualisation.

As most questions that are of central importance to the technological
practices of information-visualisation and the visualisation-sciences in
general remain hard to interpret from a purely epistemological standpoint, one
may ask how the computational and epistemological perspectives could be
reconciled. We may, however, also wonder whether philosophers shouldn’t
instead recenter their attention on the computational problems.

The exploration of potential convergences is valuable for at least two
reasons. First, and most obviously, because the increased importance of
software in scientific practice, and the distinct value of visualisation for
data-intensive sciences, the view that visualisation has become a
computational practice can no longer be ignored. Secondly, because one of the
main open problems within the visualisation sciences concerns its theoretical
foundations (Johnson 2004; Purchase et al. 2008; Chen et al. 2017), there is
room for a constructive as well as a critical input from philosophy. A
foundational theory of information visualisation that is meant to provide
unity and direction to the field, drive progress, and improve the scientific
standing of the discipline, needs to engage with epistemological challenges
that exceed the engineering challenges of visualisation. Here lies
philosophy’s first, constructive, opportunity. At the same time, when a
foundational theory is meant as a step towards a more mature science of
visualisation, this generates conflicts between the more positivistic
tendencies in the visualisation sciences and the more humanistic perspectives
on computing and information science. Philosophers can, by building on their
prior experience with the question of whether the explanation of knowledge
practices requires a unified theory, or are instead better accounted for by
situating them within a more diverse, dis-unified landscape, adopt a more
critical stance as well.

### References

  * Bolinska, Agnes. 2016. “Successful Visual Epistemic Representation.” Studies in History and Philosophy of Science Part A 56. Elsevier BV: 153–60. doi:10.1016/j.shpsa.2015.09.005.
  * Boumans, Marcel. 2016. “Graph-Based Inductive Reasoning.” Studies in History and Philosophy of Science Part A 59. Elsevier Ltd: 1–10. doi:10.1016/j.shpsa.2016.05.001.
  * Chen, Min, Georges Grinstein, Chris R Johnson, Jessie Kennedy, and Melanie Tory. 2017. “Pathways for Theoretical Advances in Visualization.” IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications 37 (4). IEEE: 103–12.
  * Contessa, Gabriele. 2007. “Scientific Representation, Interpretation, and Surrogative Reasoning*.” Philosophy of Science 74 (1). JSTOR: 48–68. doi:10.1086/519478.
  * Haber, Robert B, and David A Mcnabb. 1990. “Visualization Ldioms : A Conceptual Model Visualization for Scientific Systems.” Visualization in Scientific Computing 74: 93.
  * Johnson, Chris R. 2004. “Top Scientific Visualization Research Problems.” IEEE Comput Grap Appl IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications 24 (4): 13–17. doi:10.1109/MCG.2004.20.
  * Kulvicki, John. 2010. “Knowing with Images: Medium and Message.” Philosophy of Science 77 (April): 295–313. doi:10.1086/651321.
  * Mößner, Nicola. 2014. “Visual Information and Scientific Understanding.” Axiomathes 25 (2). Springer Netherlands: 167–79. doi:10.1007/s10516-014-9246-7.
  * Purchase, H C, N Andrienko, T J Jankun-Kelly, and M Ward. 2008. “Theoretical Foundations of Information Visualization.” Information Visualization 4950 (4950): 46–64. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-70956-5_3.
  * de Regt, Henk W. 2014. “Visualization as a Tool for Understanding.” Perspectives on Science 22 (3). MIT Press - Journals: 377–96. doi:10.1162/POSC_a_00139.
  * Suárez, Mauricio. 2004. “An Inferential Conception of Scientific Representation.” Philosophy of Science 71 (5). The University of Chicago Press on behalf of the Philosophy of Science Association: 767–79. doi:10.1086/421415.

