---
author: admin
category: page
created: '2012-12-08'
layout: page
redirect_from: [/node/213/, /workshops/wpi5/abstracts/]
tags: []
title: Fifth Workshop on the Philosophy of Information
---
## Abstracts

### Wednesday 27th March

  * Sabina Leonelli: Data integration and the management of information in contemporary biology
  * Dr Federica Russo & Dr Phyllis Illari: Information channels and biomarkers of disease
  * Omri Tal: From Shannon Information to a New Sense of Genetic Information
  * Stephen Rainey: The Method of Levels of Abstraction in Pluralism and Governance of Dialogical Interaction
  * Christoph Schulz: The informational strategy of naturalising agency
  * Federico Gobbo & Marco Benini: What Can We Know of Computational Inforgs?
  * David Gamez: Are Information or Data Patterns Correlated with Consciousness?
  * Giuseppe Primiero: Distrust and Mistrust Relations for Privatively and Modally qualified Information Channels
  * Mariarosaria Taddeo: Individual rights in the information age
  * David J. Pym: Towards a Philosophy of Information Security
  * Ignacio Hernández Antón: A scenario where quantitative and qualitative approaches to information modelling converge
  * Yacin Hamami: When is Deduction Informative in Mathematics?
  * Francesco Berto & Jacopo Tagliabue: Either the World is Digital or Not

### Wednesday 28th March

  * Luciano Floridi: Maker’s Knowledge and the Synthetic Uninformative
  * Nir Fresco, Aditya Ghose, Patrick McGivern: Types of Information Processed by Cognitive Agents
  * George M. Coghill: On Model-based Systems and Qualitative Reasoning with reference to the Philosophy of Information
  * Orlin Vakarelov:Information Qualities – A Structural Perspective
  * Marco Benini & Federico Gobbo: Measuring Computational Complexity: the Qualitative and Quantitative Intertwining of Algorithm Comparison
  * Andrew Iliadis: What is Information Artifact Ontology?



* * *

### **Sabina Leonelli: Data integration and the management of information in
contemporary biology**

Contemporary 'data science' comprises both qualitative and quantitative
aspects and methods, which are very hard to bring together as they typically
operate at different levels of abstraction and within different epistemic
cultures. In this paper, I argue that the questions raised by data integration
provide a fruitful ground for future collaborations between philosophers of
science and philosophers of information. In particular, I reflect on what it
means and what it takes to integrate data in order to acquire new knowledge
about biological entities and processes, focusing specifically on the role of
data-sharing tools, like online databases, in facilitating this process. The
scientific work involved in data integration is important and distinct from
the work required by other forms of knowledge integration, such as
methodological and explanatory integration, which have been more successful in
captivating the attention of philosophers of science. I first discuss some of
the implications of focusing on data as a unit of philosophical analysis, and
how we might understand the relationship between data and knowledge. I then
look at the conditions under which the quality and evidential value of data
posted online are assessed and interpreted by database curators as well as the
biologists wishing to use those data to foster discovery. In particular, I
consider how biological data about specific model organisms, such as the plant
Arabidopsis thaliana, are added, curated, retrieved and interpreted through
'community databases' such as The Arabidopsis Information Resource. Data
quality is checked at several steps of these journeys, and curators have to
mediate between the requirement to provide overarching principles for what
counts as 'good data' and the diversity of epistemic cultures within which
data are interpreted. Depending on the purpose and context of specific cases
of data interpretation - sometimes even including different interpretations of
the same dataset - the assessment of data quality may vary considerably. I
conclude with a set of open questions concerning the notion of data, data
quality and the relationship between data and information.

* * *

### **Dr Federica Russo & Dr Phyllis Illari: Information channels and
biomarkers of disease**

The place of causality in the world and in our knowledge of it is a well-known
philosophical problem. Traditionally, in philosophers such as Aristotle or
Hume, a theory of causality plays a key role in the interpretation of our
everyday and commonsensical perception of reality. More recently, however,
attention has shifted to the sciences as the primary focus for a full-fledged
theory of causality. This has led to intensive work on causality as integral
to our interpretation of the various sciences and of the world they
investigate, both in philosophy and in the sciences themselves. In general,
science is often interested in identifying the causes and mechanisms of the
phenomena under scrutiny. In particular, the need for a better understanding
of the nature of causality, in connection with successful methods of causal
inference from observable information, has become particularly acute in many
methodologically challenging areas stretching right across the sciences and
technology.

This paper uses biomarkers research as a test case for an informational
account of causality, illustrating how even in a messy case of complex
interacting causal factors, in a context where so much of the science is still
new, the idea of tracing a causal link can still be vital to the scientific
practice.  This idea, it will be argued, can be illuminated informationally.

Traditional thinking about causality focused on simple examples from the
fundamental sciences.  But increasingly in recent years philosophers of
science have sought to understand causality in the full complexity of sciences
such as the life sciences.  This paper seeks to go even further and examine
causality in cutting-edge science, where a view cannot be rationally
reconstructed after the fact, as the research is still in progress.  The
challenge is to find an approach to causality that can embrace the full
complexity of research underway and illuminate causal thinking therein.

Current research in molecular epidemiology uses biomarkers to understand the
different phases of disease from exposure, to early clinical changes, to
development of disease.  The hope of projects such as the current FP7 project
‘Exposomics’ is to get a better understanding of the causal impact of a number
of pollutants and chemicals on several diseases, including cancer and
allergies.  In a recent paper Russo and Williamson (2011) addressed the
question of what evidential elements enter the conceptualisation and modelling
stages of this type of biomarkers research, analysing the modelling strategy
of the FP7 pilot project ‘Envirogenomarkers’.  This paper follows up and
investigates the nature of the causal link. Traditional metaphysical accounts
(physical processes, mechanisms, powers and dispositions) are considered and
it will be explained why they are all unable to provide a sensible account of
the nature of the causal link. One problem is that these causal metaphysics
are ‘tailor-made’ for some specific scientific contexts (e.g., physics);
another problem is that they still don’t specify what does the linking (e.g.,
mechanisms). It will be argued that an informational account of causality can
provide a causal metaphysics that works across different scientific domains,
and that biomarkers research is an excellent test case.

* * *

### **Omri Tal: From Shannon Information to a New Sense of Genetic
Information**

Shannon famously remarked that a single concept of information could not
satisfactorily account for the numerous possible applications of the general
field of communication theory. I employ some basic principles from Shannon’s
work on information theory (Shannon 1948) to develop measures of information
for quantifying ‘population structure’ from genetic data. This sense of
information is somewhat less abstract than _entropy_ or _Kolmogorov
Complexity_ and is utility-oriented. Specifically, I wish to formulate a
measure of the internal structure of a collection of genotypes sampled from
multiple populations – describing the potential for correct classification of
genotypes of unknown origin. Motivated by Shannon's axiomatic approach in
deriving a unique information measure for communication, I first identify a
set of intuitively justifiable criteria that any such quantitative information
measure should satisfy. I will show that standard information-theoretic
measures such as mutual information or relative entropy cannot satisfactorily
account for this sense of information, necessitating a decision theoretic
approach.

* * *

### **Stephen Rainey: The Method of Levels of Abstraction in Pluralism and
Governance of Dialogical Interaction**

The European Union is faced with challenges in terms of at least long-term
demographic issues, the ongoing financial and economic crisis, and how
identity is made, retained and can change in a context of pluralism. In the
Europe 2020 strategy, the President of the European Commission outlines how
these challenges are going to be addressed. This will be done by following
three mutually enforcing priorities: smart growth, sustainable growth and
inclusive growth. These three priorities will only be possible to achieve by
relying on scientific and technical research, in dialogue with broader society
'stakeholders.'

A particular limit, as yet unexplored such a dialogical interaction, is that
of information quality. Owing to the plural nature of the European polity and
the increasingly complex and specialised faces of scientific research,
governance of dialogical interactions in general recedes to _formalism_. It
does this in the hope that at a suitable level of formality, differences of
opinion, perspective, viewpoint, value etc. among a diverse group will become
_practically_ irrelevant in the face of overriding solidarities of interests.
Owing to this formalism and this hope, the content of many interactions is
assumed to 'work itself out' according to rational principles: this has roots
in enlightenment views of the self, and to Habermasian analyses of
communicative action. This reliance upon the inevitable convergence of
differing views upon a common end is not tenable. This limit has its roots in
an _insufficiently textured_ view of information quality that no amount of
formal, structural tinkering can remedy. The use of the notion of 'levels of
abstraction' and cognate ideas (Floridi, 2008) in order to ground practicable
means of carrying out normative analyses using in high grade, relevant
information.

On the one hand, this requires a structural-critical enquiry (assessing _forms
of interaction_ ), but it will also require an account of information quality
in cases of conflicting viewpoints with multi-stakeholders scenarios in
particular (assessing

_contents of interactions_ ). Dialogical approaches in particular remain
wedded to conceptual schemes that deal with participants as unitary
individuals who are the bearers of ideas, thoughts, beliefs, tradition and so
on. These schemes fail to adequately account for the particular self-
conceptions, understandings and perspectives of dialogical participants. As a
result, the quality of information in these dialogues is compromised: where
participants are not conceived of in terms of their role, knowledge, aims and
so on, they are conceived of too generally. There is at present no particular
way to differentiate among the different levels, types, level of abstraction
or experience in dialogical approaches. Present thinking, at least within
recent decades of European-funded research, has focussed on how to account for
some kind of complete representation of stakeholders' values, history,
beliefs, knowledge and so on at all stages of dialogue (cf. The work of the
so-called 'Louvain School,' the ETICA and EGAIS projects in the FP7 funding
stream) This seems an utterly wrong-headed approach that can only result in
muddied waters. Rather than attempting to account for some kind of ' _res
loquens_ ' the idea of 'levels of abstraction' (Floridi _ibid_ ) can be used
to deepen the analysis of stakeholder input.

We cannot rely upon an assumed nature of the participants in dialogue, nor
upon a generalised form of interaction itself. Among participants, we can
imagine the various descriptions under which different aspects of their being
become salient. Participants are persons, citizens, employees of companies,
activists, parents, art-lovers, and so on. At these different levels of
abstraction, _different things matter_. Within the same individual, these
levels can compete, stand in tension, complement, reinforce one another, and
they can remain inactive, untapped and maybe unexamined. This can have, at
least, epistemological, political, social, learning, personal consequences of
different types. Left undifferentiated, a term such as 'stakeholder' melds
these levels together. This makes it unclear, from the perspective of the
participant herself as much as anyone else, what information _is_ being
deployed in an interaction, thereby obscuring completely what _ought to be_.
Dealing with the form and content of interactions in terms of information
unties the knots that make these problems.  

Within Habermas' thought, there is scope for understanding different levels of
abstraction insofar as there is an account of 'spheres of validity,'
(Habermas, 2004) In different spheres, different types of claims are raised,
calling for different responses from interlocutors. For instance, claims
concerning personal sincerity aren't well met by responses concerning moral
goodness. However, these spheres in Habermas occupy an analytic space not
quite part of an active discussion: _in media res_ it is impractical to ascend
to a meta- level discussion. Habermas' account remains distinctly analytical
and concerned with explaining dialogue in ways that, in reality, are most apt
for _post hoc_ evaluations. In actual dialogical procedures aimed at coming to
pressing conclusions on matters of import to diverse groups, something
entirely more actionable is required.

This issue of appropriate understanding of perspective in interactions is not
new. Anscombe's (1958) “problem of relevant description” foreshadows the
particular interests here in the sense that it points to the idea of any
situation as potentially multi-dimensional, unsettled in advance, in need of
elaboration and emergent. Using the method of levels of abstraction, the point
of an interaction can be laid out in advance in the manner of a gradient of
abstraction, with different labels for different groups of levels of
abstraction, drawing upon different values, concepts, ideas and priorities.

**Interaction quality**

|

**Important aspects**  
  
---|---  
  
As an event

|

Adequate seating, good acoustics, accessible location...  
  
As a consultation

|

Views are heard, noted well, a breadth of participants are present...  
  
As a debate

|

Issues are well spelt out, the agenda is open-ended, non-domination of
minority views...  
  
Similarly, the perspectives of participants can be parsed according to the
various sense in which they are representing themselves at different parts of
the dialogue.

**Participant perspectives**

|

**Important aspects**  
  
---|---  
  
As a lobbyist

|

Networking opportunities, opportunities to address audience(s), opportunities
to assess participants...  
  
As a policy-maker

|

Viewpoints are simply expressed, law is always considered, volume of opinion
is respected...  
  
As a citizen

|

Information is presented 'un-spun,' citizen rights are uppermost in
considerations, citizen views are heard and evaluated in an unvarnished
manner...  
  
Rather than leaving these potentially subtle, but vital, distinctions implicit
the thrust here is to make explicit what is always already present within any
given dialogical interaction. In so doing, this makes the dialogue transparent
and hitherto obscure outcomes become practicable (such as dis/agreement,
negotiation, re-conceptualisation of issues.) Where problems, disagreements,
synergies arise, they can so arise on the basis of clearly tagged information:
Participants can agree on _P_ with respect to _x_ in the matter of _Q_. This
is a world away from the assumption of a formal convergence of opinion based
in a taken as read solidarity of interests. The difference is in terms of
information and the pay-off is in terms of practicality.

**References** (in order of reference)

  * Floridi, L, 'The Method of Levels of Abstraction,' _Minds and Machines_ , 2008
  * Floridi, L, 'Distributed Morality in an Information Society,' _Science and Engineering Ethics,_ November 2012
  * Habermas, J, _The Theory of Communicative Action_ , Polity, 2004
  * Anscombe, E, 'Modern Moral Philosophy', _Philosophy_ , January 1958

* * *

### **Christoph Schulz: The informational strategy of naturalising agency  **

In this workshop contribution I’m going to outline a cybernetic framework in
which the naturalisation of information and the naturalisation of agency can
be described in an analogous way. In Fred Dretske’s version of information
theory (Dretske (1981)) the process of informing consists of the transfer of
information and its digitalisation. A digital piece of information is produced
by the extraction of parts of an analogue piece of information that refers to
a contingent matter of fact. The process is irreversible since information is
lost during digitalisation. The intentional stance of aboutness can be further
upgraded into a propositional stance that is characterised by the use of
concepts. Dretske’s approach is thus similar to the solution of the Kopenhagen
interpretation (e.g. in von Weizsäcker (2006)) of the problem of measurement
in quantum mechanics. The result of a measurement is described in classical
terms rather than according to the (reversible) Schrödinger-Equation, and
therefore produces an irreversible piece of information. The agency-theory of
causation can be interpreted in an analogous way: the formula “an event A is a
cause of a distinct event B just in case bringing about the occurrence of A
would be an effective means by which a free agent could bring about the
occurrence of B“ (Price and Menzies (1993)) can easily be misunderstood by
interpreting the two instances of “bringing about” in the same way, although
they are to be distinguished. The basic experience of an agent is that it has
to intervene into its environment to bring about states of affairs that are
beneficial and that would not happen without an intervention (non-spontaneous
processes). Similar to the role of the process of transferring information
through a channel and its digitalisation, which does not require a channel,
the “bringing about A” is an immediate action that does not require a
mechanism, whereas the transfer of the causal influence from A to B is subject
to that physical constraint. In this interpretation the agency theory of
causation solves the problem of conceptual circularity or regress that other
interventionist theories of causation struggle with (see for example Woodward
(2008) for an appreciation of the problem for his _objectivist_ intervention-
based account). I will also argue that the similarity between information and
causation is no coincidence, since both are basically just different aspects
of the relation between an agent and its environment, as a cybernetic outlook
shows. Learning about the contingent state of its environment is a
prerequisite for an agent of interacting successfully with the environment.
This holds true for increasing the number of effective strategies in a game-
theoretic context when playing for resources against other players, Norbert
Wiener’s so-called “Manichean environment” (Wiener (1988)). E.g., we have more
strategies to choose from while bidding in a poker game if we happen to know
parts of our opponent’s hand, compared to the bidding strategy based on the
default assumption (or see, for a similar description for the game “matching
pennies”, Werner (1991)). In the so-called “Augustinian environment”, an agent
plays against a natural environment that is subject to the rise of entropy.
E.g., the demon in Maxwell’s thought experiment first has to measure the
microstate of a distribution of gas molecules in a container to subsequently
bring about a physical entropy reduction, which, in this case, is a
temperature gradient that can later be exploited for doing work. In both
cases, reducing informational entropy (i.e. uncertainty about a contingent
state of affairs of the environment, which is transferred through a channel
and then digitalised) enables the increase of utility, be it in the context of
a rule-based or natural interaction.

**References**

  * Dretske, F. (1981). _Knowledge and the Flow of Information_ , MIT Press.
  * Price, H. and P. Menzies (1993). "Causation as a Secondary Quality." _British Journal for the Philosophy of Science_ **44** : 187-203.
  * von Weizsäcker, C. (2006). _The Structure of Physics (Fundamental Theories of Physics)_ , Springer.
  * Werner, E. (1991). "A united view of information, intention and ability." _Proceedings of the Second European Workshop on Modelling Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Worlds_.
  * Wiener, N. (1988). _The Human Use of Human Beings: Cybernetics and Society (Da Capo Paperback)_ , {Da Capo Press}.
  * Woodward, J. (2008). Invariance, Modularity, and All That: Cartwright on Causation. _Nancy Cartwright’s Philosophy of Science_. L. Bovens, C. Hoefer and S. Hartmann, Routledge Studies in the Philosophy of Science.

* * *

### **Federico Gobbo& Marco Benini: What Can We Know of Computational Inforgs?
**

Within the ontology of Informational Structural Realism, an informational
organism (inforg) carries a minimal ontological commitment in favour of
structural properties of reality, which answers the question ‘what can we
know?’ (Floridi, 2011, ch. 15). In this paper, we deal with the answer to this
question in the case of computational inforgs (c-inforgs), whose engineered
artifact are based on some kind of computing device, typically a Von Neumann
machine (VNM) (Gobbo and Benini, 2013, for details). The system-level-model-
structure (SLMS) scheme relies on the method of levels of abstraction (LoAs),
where a LoA is individuated according to the range of observables analysed
within a system, then producing a model that identifies a structure (Floridi,
2011, 15.2.3). When applying the SLMS scheme to the case study of c-inforgs,
we should distinguish between two different classes. The first class is
populated by open c-inforgs. Members of this class show an important property
in their VNM-based counterpart: the openness of the source code—a fundamental
Level of Organisation (LoO) in c-inforgs, see Gobbo and Benini (forthcoming).
Openness can be loosely defined as the ability to inspect the VNM-based
counterpart of the c-inforg to anyone—extending the usual definition of
availability of the source code to anybody without barriers. Thus, we may have
direct knowledge of the artifact under investigation, although directness does
not imply that knowledge is transparent, because it is mediated by the
appropriate LoA(s). Following the well-known metaphor of boxes, open c-inforgs
are grey to some degree. The second class is the dual to the first one, being
populated by closed c-inforgs. Here, the access to the VNM counterpart,
especially the source code, is not granted. However, we can still access
inputs and output: even if information got hidden into a black box, the
logical structure of the VNM-based artifact is still open to inspection. As
put effectively by Franklin (1999, 721): ‘despite the best efforts of
Microsoft to make all computer programs so large as to be incomprehensible,
small surveyable programs are still common items’. In the case of closed
c-inforgs we can only infer indirectly their structural properties from the
observation of how behaviours change according to inputs, which is an
eminently qualitative activity. According to the method of LoAs, in the case
of closed c-inforgs we can only observe the feedback given by the system: the
model generated in the SLMS scheme is at the 2nd order, in terms of
ontological commitment (Floridi, 2011, 15.2.4).

Evidently, the analyses of open c-inforgs can be more fine-grained than the
ones made on closed c-inforgs: openness let the analysts use quantitative
methods to measure the VNM counterpart, in particular, the source code, which
can be inspected using ‘direct metrics’ coming from Software Engineering.
Direct metrics do not depend upon a measure of any other attribute, and
therefore they are presumed valid per se, according to IEEE Standard 1061
(IEEE, 1998). It is important to notice that direct metrics are necessary but
not sufficient, and so other metrics have been proposed and validated in terms
of the first ones: it is not by chance that the IEEE Standard 1061 presents
the methodology for software quality metrics. We can now instantiate the SLMS
scheme of software quality metrics: the ontological commitment at the 1st
order is represented by LoAs representing direct metrics, which are inherently
quantitative; on the other hand, indirect metrics are more qualitative-
oriented LoAs, as they strictly depend on the first ones by definition, and so
they are at the 2nd order in terms of ontological commitment.

Software Engineering can give us a concrete field of application. Let us take
a complex information system as a closed c-inforg: the VNM-based artifact is
made by the complex of hardware, software (source and running code), and
network infrastructure, while its biological counterpart is made by software
programmers, system administrators, end-users etc.. It is well known in the
literature that even a focused goal-oriented engineering practice like the
risk assessment of a given complex information system is ‘a subjective
process’ (Redmill, 2002), as it depends on the subjective views of the expert.
Nevertheless, a formalisation of the risk assessment procedure was recently
proposed, introducing the notion of compatible metrics in terms of morphisms
between partial orders (Benini and Sicari, 2009).

A future direction of work is to generalise this formalisation originally
found in Software Engineering to compare qualitative properties of c-inforgs.
For example, Facebook is a very complex c-inforg, which is closed to its end-
users. We consider the relation between an end-user (the biological agent) and
his/her account in the social network (the VNM-based counterpart considered
here). We notice that some users prefer to access their Facebook account
through a smartphone, while other prefer their favourite web browser of their
own laptop. Now, the possible actions a user can perform on Facebook through a
smartphone are not identical to the actions available through the laptop web
browser—for instance, options to share one’s posts, or the presence of a
photocamera. As a result, we can describe two different LoAs (in terms of
graphic end-user’s interface), two corresponding LoOs (the mobile application
of Facebook is an application software, while the web site for standard web
browser is another one) and finally two corresponding Levels of Explanation
(LoEs), expressed in terms of goals or users’ habits, e.g., users keen to
smartphones could prefer to give and receive GPS-based information, while
users keen to desktops perhaps prefer to write longer texts in posts. Order
theory may be used to formalise subjective judgements like ‘x is better than
y’ or ‘A prefers z to that w’. Our aim is eventually to describe a user’s
preference profile in terms of partial orders, so that we can algebraically
measure the distance between the propensities of different biological users
within the same c-inforg (in our example, end-users in Facebook).

In conclusion, the test case of c-inforgs shows us there is always the
mediation of at least one LoA, which presents at least a minimal degree of
quality even if expressed in quantitative terms (liminal realism). Therefore,
the working philosopher of information cannot avoid the continuous interplay
between qualitative and quantitative point of views of information, especially
after the computational turn, when informational organisms become more and
more complex.

**References**

  * Benini, M. and Sicari, S. (2007), ‘Risk assessment via partial orders’, Advances in Computer Science and Engineering 3(1), 19–46.
  * Floridi, L. (2011), The Philosophy of Information, Oxford University Press, Oxford.
  * Franklin, J. (1999), ‘Structure and domain-independence in the formal sciences’, Stud. Hist. Phil. Sci. 30(4), 721–723.
  * Gobbo, F. and Benini, M. (2013), ‘The Minimal Levels of Abstraction in the History of Modern Computing’, Philosophy & Technology pp. 1–17.
  * URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13347-012-0097-0
  * Gobbo, F. and Benini, M. (forthcoming), ‘Why zombies can’t write significant source code: The knowledge game and the art of computer programming’, Journal of Experimental & Theoretical Artificial Intelligence .
  * IEEE (1998), ‘Standard for a software quality metrics methodology’, IEEE Standards Dept.Std. 1061-1998.
  * Redmill, F. (2002), ‘Risk analysis: A subjective process’, Engineering Management Journal 12(2), 91–96.

* * *

### **David Gamez: Are Information or Data Patterns Correlated with
Consciousness? _ _**

**1\. Introduction**

Experimental work on the correlates of consciousness is attempting to identify
the relationship between phenomenal and physical states without making a
premature commitment to any particular metaphysical theory of consciousness. A
number of potential correlates have been identified, including neural
synchronization, recurrent connections, quantum features and electromagnetic
waves, and Tononi [1] has proposed that the pattern of integration and
differentiation in the brain’s information states, known as ‘information
integration’, could be linked with consciousness.1 A number of algorithms have
been developed to measure information integration [3-5] and the theory has
been tested in some preliminary experimental work [6-8].

  1. See Tononi and Koch [2] for a review of some of these potential correlates.
  2. Some suggestions about this are made in [10].

While information integration is currently the only explicitly informational
theory of consciousness, other algorithms could be used to identify
information patterns in the brain that could be correlated with consciousness.
This paper will look at the philosophical and experimental issues that need to
be addressed by any information-based approach to the correlates of
consciousness.

**2\. Dedomena, Data and Information**

Information patterns that are correlated with consciousness can only be
identified when we have a clear definition of information. Floridi’s [9]
distinction between dedomena, data and information is a promising way of
addressing this problem:

  1. _Dedomena_. Changes or patterns in the world that exist prior to human measurements.
  2. _Data_. A lack of uniformity in the world that is measured by defining a _level of abstraction_ \- for example, neuron firing events are one level of abstraction in the brain.
  3. _Information_. Well-formed meaningful data. The question of what makes data meaningful is difficult; one of Floridi’s (2009) suggestions is that meaningful data is a combination of data and queries. For example, the proposition “The earth only has one moon” can be interpreted as a piece of meaningful data in which the semantic content is the question “Does the Earth only have one moon?” and the answer “yes” is a single bit of data.

Dedomena are the most objective aspect of a physical system and the most
plausible candidate for a correlates-based approach to consciousness. However,
since dedomena cannot be directly measured, we have to look instead for data
patterns in the brain that might be correlated with consciousness. These
include the patterns identified by Tononi’s information integration approach,
which is more accurately described as a theory of data integration [10]. The
question about whether information patterns could be correlates of
consciousness will be set aside in this paper because of the difficulty of
measuring meaningful data in the brain.

**3\. Levels of Analysis**

While there appears to be an objective fact of the matter about whether a
person is in a particular conscious state, the data that is measured in a
system is the outcome of an experimenter’s subjective choice of a level of
abstraction. There are a number of ways of reconciling the subjectivity of
data sets with the fact that consciousness must be correlated with an
objective property of the physical brain:

  1. Consciousness could be correlated with data at one particular level of the brain, for example, with patterns of neuron firing events, but not with patterns at any other level of abstraction. In this case the correlate of consciousness would be a pattern of neuron firing events and there would not be _data_ correlates of consciousness.
  2. Data patterns at different levels of abstraction could coincide – for example the pattern of differentiation and integration at the level of atoms might map onto the pattern of differentiation and integration at the level of neurons. In this case, it would not matter which level of abstraction was selected because they would all lead to the same result.
  3. A data algorithm could be defined that applies across all possible levels of the system (Tononi [11] suggests this approach). This has the problem that the number of levels is potentially infinite, and the lower levels of the system cannot be accurately measured because of Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle. 

**4\. Data Pattern or Physical Correlate?**

There is potential ambiguity between these two claims:

  1. A pattern of _data_ is correlated with consciousness.
  2. A pattern of an _aspect of the physical world_ is correlated with consciousness.

One way of demonstrating that data patterns are the actual correlates is to
use an algorithm that finds a maximum across multiple levels of abstraction.
If one level correlated with consciousness at one time and another level
correlated with consciousness at another time, then it could be claimed that
the data patterns are correlates of consciousness, and not the physical
patterns at one particular level. This would only work if the levels did not
coincide.

**5\. Causal Powers of Data Patterns**

When we describe our consciousness it seems reasonable to claim that the
report is _about_ consciousness because consciousness _caused_ the report. If
consciousness _is_ a particular pattern of data, then this data pattern must
be capable of causing reports about consciousness. This constrains the types
of data pattern that are candidate correlates of consciousness.

**6\. Unconscious Data Patterns**

If the current information/data algorithms [3, 5] were applied to the
unconscious brain, they would be likely to return a positive result, which
would contradict the observation that we apparently have _no_ consciousness
when we are unconscious. Algorithms measuring data patterns that are candidate
correlates of consciousness should return zero when they are applied to the
unconscious brain.

**7\. Experimental Issues**

A major problem with a data-based approach to consciousness is that we have
very limited access to the brain. Furthermore, even if we could measure the
brain’s 80 billion neurons with high spatial and temporal resolution, we would
be unable to analyze this data with our current computer power.

**References**

  * [1] G. Tononi, "Consciousness as integrated information: a provisional manifesto," _Biol Bull,_ vol. 215, pp. 216-42, Dec 2008.
  * [2] G. Tononi and C. Koch, "The neural correlates of consciousness: an update," _Ann N Y Acad Sci,_ vol. 1124, pp. 239-61, Mar 2008.
  * [3] D. Balduzzi and G. Tononi, "Integrated information in discrete dynamical systems: motivation and theoretical framework," _PLoS Comput Biol,_ vol. 4, p. e1000091, Jun 2008.
  * [4] D. Gamez and I. Aleksander, "Accuracy and performance of the state-based Φ and liveliness measures of information integration," _Consciousness and Cognition,_ vol. 20, pp. 1403-24, Dec 2011.
  * [5] G. Tononi and O. Sporns, "Measuring information integration," _BMC Neurosci,_ vol. 4, p. 31, Dec 2 2003.
  * [6] M. Massimini _, et al._ , "A perturbational approach for evaluating the brain's capacity for consciousness," _Prog Brain Res,_ vol. 177, pp. 201-14, 2009.
  * [7] F. Ferrarelli _, et al._ , "Breakdown in cortical effective connectivity during midazolam-induced loss of consciousness," _Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A,_ vol. 107, pp. 2681-6, 2010.
  * [8] U. Lee _, et al._ , "Propofol induction reduces the capacity for neural information integration: implications for the mechanism of consciousness and general anesthesia," _Consciousness and Cognition,_ vol. 18, pp. 56-64, Mar 2009.
  * [9] L. Floridi, "Philosophical Conceptions of Information," _Lecture Notes in Computer Science,_ vol. 5363, pp. 13-53, 2009.
  * [10] D. Gamez, "Information and Consciousness," _Etica & Politica / Ethics & Politics,, _vol. XIII, pp. 215-234, 2011.
  * [11] G. Tononi, "Information integration: its relevance to brain function and consciousness," _Arch Ital Biol,_ vol. 148, pp. 299-322, Sep 2010. 

* * *

### **Giuseppe Primiero: Distrust and Mistrust Relations for Privatively and
Modally qualified Information Channels**

The literature on the characterization of trust relations between interactive
agents is growing, in terms of both conceptual ([19], [8], [1], [5]; for an
overview see also [20]) and formal analyses ([10], [4], [13], [2], [12]).
Contexts of application range from distributed systems in digital domains to
decision making processes requiring physical relations and beliefs assessment.
In [22] and [21] trust is defined as a second-order relation, characterizing
first-order ones among agents. In particular, for the epistemic context
generated by an information channel, trust qualifies the communication between
the receiver and the source of a certain information content. In [18] this
understanding of trusted communication is formalized by a modal type theory
which accounts for the two epistemic states involved: verification-terms on
propositions for directly known contents; partial-terms for communicated but
not verified (hence,to be trusted) contents.

In the present paper, the model of trust as a second-order relation grounds
the conceptual analysis of two important counterpart notions:distrust and
mistrust. Also in this case, attention is increasing towards both conceptual
and formal analyses, see e.g. [7], [3], [9] and [14]. A number of these
approaches, rely on quantitative measures of successful previous
communications to establish propagation functions of both trust and distrust,
while often mistrust is a neglected notion. We start instead from the context
of a semantic theory of information, which offers a qualitative approach where
misinformation can be understood as unintentionally false information and
disinformation as intentionally false information, see [6, p.260]. We exploit
such definitions to offer a qualitative understanding of both mistrust and
distrust and lay the basis for a formal model extending the one for trust
offered in [18].

We understand a (complete) communication act about A as the expression of the
information procedure P functional to the achievement of a goal G establishing
that A is valid for the current information channel. This corresponds to
upgrade information content A to knowledge, provided no node of the current
channel can falsify it, see [15]. Our analysis then starts by establishing a
property shared by distrust and mistrust: a communication channel
characterized by mistrust or distrust determines uncertainty in the receiver
R's epistemic state in view of source S inducing { either intentionally or
unintentionally { an error state in R with respect to information content A.
On the basis of the taxonomy presented in [16], we can formulate a detailed
analysis of the possible error conditions under which the communication of hP;
Gi can produce an uncertain epistemic state. We shall then define distrust as
a second-order modified relation over an information channel between S and R
such that whenever S communicates hP; Gi, R applies a privative operator to
obtain one of the possibilities to categorically falsify the pair hP; Gi. The
clue here is that distrust is R's epistemic attitude about communications from
an S thought to generate intentionally false information, or disinformation.
The intentional element is reflected by the use of a privative operator to
falsify the received information. The semantics of such an operator has been
studied in [17] and can easily be applied to the trust model at hand. On the
other hand, we shall define mistrust as a second-order modified relation over
an information channel between S and R such that whenever S communicates hP;
Gi, R applies a modal operator to obtain one of the possibilities to modally
falsify the pair hP; Gi. The clue here is that mistrust is R's epistemic
attitude about communications from an S thought to generate unintentionally
false information, or misinformation. The unintentional element is reflected
by the use of a modal operator to weaken the received information to a
contingent falsity. The semantics of such an operator has been studied in [11]
and can easily be adapted to the trust model at hand. We will also explore
some additional properties of mistrust and distrust as second-order modified
relations.

**References**

  * [1] A. Baier. Sustaining trust. In A. Baier, editor, Moral Prejudices. Harvard University Press, 1994.
  * [2] Antonis Bikakis and Grigoris Antoniou. Distributed defeasible contextual reasoning in ambient computing. In Emile Aarts, JamesL. Crowley, Boris Ruyter, Heinz Gerhuser, Alexander Paum, Janina Schmidt, and Reiner Wichert, editors, Ambient Intelligence, volume 5355 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 308{325. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2008.
  * [3] Christian Borgs, Jennifer Chayes, AdamTauman Kalai, Azarakhsh Malekian, and Moshe Tennenholtz. A novel approach to propagating distrust. In Amin Saberi, editor, Internet and Network Economics, volume 6484 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 87{105. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2010.
  * [4] Jan Broersen, Mehdi Dastani, Zhisheng Huang, and Leendert W. N. van der Torre. Trust and commitment in dynamic logic. In Proceedings of the First EurAsian Conference on Information and Communication Technology, EurAsia-ICT '02, pages 677{684, London, UK, UK, 2002. Springer-Verlag.
  * [5] C. Castelfranchi and R. Falcone. Trust Theory. A Socio-Cognitive and Computational Model. Wiley, 2010.
  * [6] L. Floridi. The Philosophy of Information. Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2011.
  * [7] R. Guha, R. Kumar, P. Raghavan, and A. Tomkins. Propagation of trust and distrust. In WWW2004 - Proceedings of the 13th international conference on World Wide Web, pages 403{412, 2004.
  * [8] J. Hardwig. The role of trust in knowledge. The Journal of Philosophy, 88:693{708, 1991.
  * [9] W. T. Harwood, J. A. Clark, and J. L. Jaco. Networks of trust and distrust: Towards logical reputation systems. In Dov M. Gabbay and Leendert van der Torre, editors, Logics in Security, 2010.
  * [10] WesleyH. Holliday. Dynamic testimonial logic. In Xiangdong He, John Horty, and Eric Pacuit, editors, Logic, Rationality, and Interaction, volume 5834 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 161{179. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2009.
  * [11] B. Jespersen and G. Primiero. Alleged assassins: Realist and constructivist semantics for modal modification. In G. Bezhanishvili et al., editor, TbiLLC 2011, volume 7758 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science. Springer Verlag, 2013.
  * [12] S. Kramer, R. Gor_e, and E. Okamoto. Computer-aided decision-making with trust relations and trust domains (cryptographic applications). Journal of Logic and Computation, 2012.
  * [13] Emiliano Lorini, Laurent Perrussel, and Jean-Marc Thevenin. A modal framework for relating belief and signed information. In Proceedings of the 12th international conference on Computational logic in multi-agent systems, CLIMA'11, pages 58{73, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2011. Springer-Verlag.
  * [14] D. Harrison McKnight and Norman L. Chervany. Trust and distrust definitions: One bite at a time. In Proceedings of the workshop on Deception, Fraud, and Trust in Agent Societies held during the Autonomous Agents Conference: Trust in Cyber-societies, Integrating the Human and Artificial Perspectives, pages 27{54, London, UK, UK, 2001. Springer-Verlag.
  * [15] G. Primiero. Offline and online data: on upgrading functional information to knowledge. Philosophical Studies, 2012.
  * [16] G. Primiero. A taxonomy of errors for information systems. Minds & Machines, forthcoming, 2013.
  * [17] G. Primiero and B. Jespersen. Two Kinds of Procedural Semantics for Privative Modifi cation. volume 6284 of Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence, pages 252{71, Berlin, Germany, 2009 2009. Springer Verlag.
  * [18] G. Primiero and M. Taddeo. A modal type theory for formalizing trusted communications. Journal of Applied Logic, 10:92{114, 2012. Manuscript. Submitted.
  * [19] Carles Sierra and John Debenham. An information-based model for trust. In Proceedings of the fourth international joint conference on Autonomous agents and multiagent systems, AAMAS '05, pages 497{504, New York, NY, USA, 2005. ACM.
  * [20] M. Taddeo. Defining Trust and E-trust: Old Theories and New Problems. International Journal of Technology and Human Interaction (IJTHI), 5(2):23{35, 2009.
  * [21] M. Taddeo. An information-based solution for the puzzle of testimony and trust. Social Epistemology, 24(4): 285 {299, 2010.
  * [22] M. Taddeo. Modelling Trust in Artificial Agents, a First Step toward the Analysis of e-Trust. Minds & Machines, 20(2): 243 {257, 2010.

* * *

### **Mariarosaria Taddeo: Individual rights in the information age **

The information revolution has radically changed the way in which we perceive
and interact with other agents, both human and artificial, and with the
environment. Two aspects of such a revolution are noteworthy for the analysis
developed in this paper: the rise of the digital domain and the progressive
blurring of the digital with the physical domain within each other. Such a
blurring is affecting several aspects of our contemporary life, from the way
we establish and maintain social contacts to the way in which we ensure the
safety of our societies. Floridi (Floridi 2010) describes this phenomenon well
when he calls it the _onlife_ , referring to a life without any significant
divide between online and offline activities.

These changes have reshaped the way we work, entertain, travel and interact.
They have also redefined the way we perceive ourselves as individuals and
construct our identities (Floridi 2011), (Johnson 1997), to the point that
online activities play a substantial role in the achievement of a healthy and
rewarding life, as they provide “affordances and spaces for self-expression
and self-poiesis” (Floridi 2011). When considered from an ethical perspective,
these changes raise two questions concerning (i) whether the transformations
engendered by the information revolution create the need for individuals to
claim new rights for themselves as agents living the onlife; and (ii) what
such rights should be. This paper addresses these two questions.

The analysis is developed in two parts. The first one addresses question (i)
and argues that, as online experiences are deemed to be as relevant for the
well-being of individuals as offline ones, then individuals have the rights
for their online activities not only to be protected but also to be supported
in order to achieve a good-life online and, more generally, to foster their
well-being. In this respect, it is argued that the right to privacy, while
remaining fundamental for the protection of personal information, should not
be considered sufficient to ensure the well-being of individuals. The scope of
rights that individuals should claim online should be extended.

The scope of these rights is analysed in the second part of the paper, which
focuses on question (ii) and describes two categories of rights, which should
be respected to guarantee the possibility of achieving a good life for
individuals living in the information age. The first category concerns the
right of being in _control_ of the data and information concerning ourselves.
Such a right rests on the understanding of data and information as greasy,
i.e. accessible, portable, which can be mined by third parties and may reveal
sensitive personal information (Moor 1997). It is argued that the
informational nature of the online sphere facilitates surveillance and
controlling measures to the extent that it becomes feasible to wonder whether
personal data and information could be accessed and manipulated bythird
parties possessing adequate technologies. In this context, the right to
control refers to the right to access, manage and dispose of first order data
and information concerning ourselves. This is to say that, for example, one
has the right to know and to decide the way in which data concerning ‘his
preferences for pizza’ (Moor 1997) are used by third parties.

The second category of rights refers to the informational nature of the
digital domain and takes into account the relevance of accessing and sharing
information for the well-being of individuals. Such rights protect the aspects
of the onlife that are deemed necessary to experience a good life. According
to this analysis, it is maintained that individuals have the right to enjoy:

  * computing resources: these refer to computational cycles that are necessary for individuals to experience the onlife.
  * storage resources: these are the resources necessary to express, recall, and store personal data and information (storing space as a utility).
  * networking: which refers to the right to act and interact with the rest of the online sphere, agents, and environment.

The paper concludes by considering the proposed informational rights in
relation to human rights. It is first recalled that the right to information
is already regarded as a _liberty_ right in Art. 19 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights (Mathiesen 2008), (Coliver 1995). It is then
stressed that the informational rights described in this article should be
considered as part of the second generation of human rights (Vasak 1982),
concerning social and cultural rights, since such rights are devoted to
defending and fostering human lives in the contemporary information age and
are not just about accessing information.

**References**

  * Coliver, S. (1995). "The Right to Know: Human rights and access to reproductive health information." _Edited by ARTICLE 19 and the International Centre Against Censorship._
  * Floridi, L. (2010). "The Digital Revolution as The Fourth Revolution." _Invited contribution to the BBC online program Digital Revolution_.
  * Floridi, L., Ed. (2011). _The Construction of Personal Identities Online,_.
  * Floridi, L. (2011). "The Informational Nature of Personal Identity." _Minds & Machines_ **21** (4): 549-566.
  * Johnson, D. G. (1997). "Ethics Online, Shaping social behavior online takes more than new laws and modified edicts." _Communication of the ACM_ **40** (1): 60-65.
  * Mathiesen, K. (2008). Censorship and Access to Informaton. _Handbook of Information and Computer Ethics_. K. E. Himma and H. T. Tavani. New York, John Wiley and Sons.
  * Moor, J. H. (1997). "Towards a theory of privacy in the information age." _SIGCAS Computer and Society_ **27** (3): 27–32.
  * Vasak, K., Ed. (1982). _The International Dimensions of Human Rights_ , 2 Volumes, UNESCO.

* * *

### **David J. Pym: Towards a Philosophy of Information Security **

**1\. What is Information Security?**

Information security is concerned with the protection of the attributes of
items of information that are of value to the owners, users, and stewards of
that information and of the systems that process information and those
systems. It seeks to ensure that just the right information is available to
just the right agents, in just the right place at just the right time.
Information is invariably represented as some form of data, be it text on a
page, bit patterns in computer memory, configurations of neurones in human
memory, or lines in the sand on a beach. The attributes of interest in
information security can usefully be categorized as confidentiality,
integrity, and availability (often referred to as `CIA'). Confidentiality is
concerned with the degree of exposure of information to its environment.
Integrity is concerned with the degree of accuracy of the information.
Availability is concerned with the degree of accessibility of the information.
All of these attributes have both spatial and temporal aspects. Note that
emphprivacy is concerned with an agent's preference for confidentiality. In
our information-rich, massively interconnected world, the meaning and nature
of privacy can only be understood in the context of the intended and achieved
protection of confidentiality afforded by information-processing systems. Many
authors, including Parker [26] among many, choose to enrich the CIA framework
with other concepts, such as `authentication' and `non-repudiation'. As we
shall see below, those are category errors, deriving from a need to analyze
rigorously, on the one hand, the declarative objectives of information and, on
the other, the operational mechanisms that are used in order to achieve them.
Information security often slightly carelessly conflated with `cyber-security'
has developed as an engineering discipline [1] within informatics. It also
deep connections with logic [12] and, in recent years, has benefitted greatly
from the perspectives provided by sociology, psychology, and economics. The
concepts of information can also usefully be applied to other security
situations, when considered from the perspective of information flow. A
specific example here is airport security [7, 14], which the availability
(accessibility) of the aircraft to passengers must be considered alongside the
maintenance of integrity properties of the airside areas of the airport
(including the aircraft). Of course, passengers using an airport must give up
their privacy/confidentiality. I suggest that it may now be appropriate to
consider the concepts, tools, and uses of information security |a discipline
that, as we have seen, provides a way to understand much of the activity of
the information age| from a philosophical perspective. The context provided by
Floridi [17] provides an appropriate point of departure. As a starting point,
it is essential to distinguish clearly the objectives of a security
architecture, the operational mechanisms by which those objectives are
achieved [7, 14], the methodology for making decisions about preferences and
trade-offs in the design and delivery of security architectures [7, 14], and
the properties of the underlying systems themselves [13, 10]. But this
perspective suggests also new ways to approach questions of the meaning of
identity and privacy. If an agent's identity effectively exists in the cloud,
who controls it, owns it, what is its value? What is the meaning of privacy in
such a world?

**2\. Declarative and Operational Concepts**

Confidentiality, integrity, and availability are declarative concepts: they
express the objectives of an information security policy. They are perhaps the
highest useful level such characterization, and it is often appropriate and
convenient to work with declarative sub-concepts. Examples include staff
productivity and server availability (availability), levels of data-entry
error, disk corruption, or bit-rot (integrity), and levels of database
breaches or losses of portable back-up storage media (confidentiality).

Corresponding to each of the declarative concepts are operational concepts
that can be used to deliver the declarative objectives. For example,
authentication (e.g., passwords, etc.) and access control models (e.g., top
secret, secret, unclassified and who can read/write at what level) are used to
protect confidentiality; back-ups and check-sums are used to protect
integrity; raided files systems, redundant processors, and cloud-based
services protect availability. The key challenges for the system
designer/manager and/or policy-maker are the following: to identify, quantify,
and prioritize their declarative objectives and to identify, determine the
effectiveness of, and cost the operational mechanisms to be used to implement
their objectives. This requirement to understand and manage a transition from
essentially qualitative objectives to quantified measures of operational
effectiveness is a characteristic challenge of information security. The key
practical technique in this respect is derived from economicsin particular,
utility theory as it is deployed in macroeconomics, as a predictive simulation
modelling tool [13, 15], in which the values of competing attributes must be
weighted and balanced according to the preferences of the policy-makers.

**3\. Utility and Trade-offs**

We have defined information security (in x 1) as being concerned with the
value of security attributes to its owners, users, and stewards. Utility
theory (see, for ex- ample, [21, 27]), particularly as developed in the
contexts of macroeconomics and financial economics, provides a highly
expressive framework for representing the values (preferences) of the managers
of a system. This economic framework can be deployed in the context of
information security (see, for example, [6, 19, 20, 8]), where concepts - such
as confidentiality, integrity, and availability that lie within competing
declarative categories can be seen to trade-off against one another as the
relevant controls - such as system configurations or investments in people,
process, and technology system configurations - vary. An organization that
deploys information security measures exists in an economic and/or regulatory
environment. This environment places constraints upon the systems and security
architectures available to the organization's managers. The managers can
formulate a utility function that expresses their policy preferences, which
will depend upon the nature of their organization. For one example, state
intelligence agencies and online retailers will have quite different
priorities among confidentiality, integrity, availability, and cost; see, for
example, [19]. For another, consider the trade-offs that must be made between
effcient the `information' flow of checked-in passengers to the aircraft and
adequate assurance that the aircraft will not contain dangerous objects.

In such highly complex security architectures, it will typically not be
possible to formulate system equations in the way that is usually possible in,
for example, macro-economic modelling. Typically, though, the key control
variables, such as system interconnectivity or investment in various aspects
(people, process, and technology) of security operations, will be
identifiable. Instead, however, an executable system model [13, 10], using the
key control variables, can used in order to simulate the dynamics of the
utility function. Thus we are led to identify, and find new ways to address,
questions such as the following: what is the value of an identity? what is the
value of privacy?

**4\. Towards a Logic of Information Security**

The systems that information security seeks to protect can be understood
conceptually in terms of the classical theory of distributed systems (see,
e.g., [16, 5]). They execute processes, which manipulate resources around the
system's locations, and respond to, and supply, events from their
environments. To understand and model such systems mathematically, our
starting points are Milner's synchronous calculus of communicating systems
(SCCS) [24], perhaps the most basic of process calculi, the resource semantics
of bunched logic, and a basic notion of location [11, 9]. The basic idea is
that processes evolve by performing actions, and in so doing modify the
current location and the resources available. This co-evolution of locations,

resources, and processes is described by a modification function <see PDF
version>, which is specifies that the basic action a, when applied to
resources R at location L, returns resources R0 at location L0. This is
written as <see PDF version>. Processes are constructed from basic actions
using combinators for action prefixing, concurrent composition, non-
deterministic choice, local resources, and recursion. The meaning of the
combinators is given by a structural (natural deduction-style) operational
semantics. Along with this calculus of processes comes a logic of state. This
logic is most naturally formulated as a modal, substructural system that is
closely related to the logic of bunched implications [25, 11, 10]. The key
judgement of the logic is given by the satisfaction relation, L;R;E j= Ø,
which specifies that property Ø holds of the system state - or world [22, 23],
or situation; the inherent partiality of the model of the system provided by
(L;R;E)-worlds suggests that situation theory [4, 3, 5] may give a useful
perspective. The logic includes classical/intuitionistic additive connectives,
quantifiers, and modalities and classical/intuitionistic multiplicative
connectives, quantifiers and modalities that are able to express naturally
wide range of delicate relationships between resource manipulation and process
execution [24, 18]. Do these logical tools provide us with new ways to reason
about identity, about privacy, and even responsibility [2]?

**5\. Towards a Philosophy of Information Security**

If, following Floridi [17], we take the philosophy of information to be
concerned with '(a) the critical investigation of the conceptual nature and
basic principles of information, including its dynamics, utilization and
sciences; and (b) the elaboration and application of information-theoretic and
computational methodologies to philosophical problems', then it seems clear
from the preceding discussion that considering explicitly the philosophy of
information security raises a number of issues

within the philosophy of information itself and identifies a number of points
of contact with concepts from logic, economics, and socio-technical aspects of
systems engineering. I suggest that an examination of the concepts of
information security, their declarative and operational meanings, and the
concept of information flow within the context of the declarative-operational
interplay might be both challenging and useful.

**References**

  * [1] Ross Anderson. Security Engineering (Second Edition). Wiley, 2008.
  * [2] A. Baldwin, D. Pym, M. Sadler, and S. Shiu. Information stewardship in cloud ecosystems: Towards models, economics, and delivery. In Proc. 2011 Third IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science (Cloud-Com 2011), pages 784{791. IEEE Digitial Library, 2011.
  * [3] J. Barwise. Situations, facts, and true propositions. In The Situation in Logic, CSLI Lecture Notes 17, 1989.
  * [4] J. Barwise and J. Perry. Situations and attitudes. MIT Press, 1983.
  * [5] J. Barwise and J. Seligman. Information Flow: The Logic of Distributed Systems. Cambridge University Press, 1997.
  * [6] A. Beautement, R. Coles, J. Griffn, C. Ioannidis, B. Monahan, D. Pym (Corresponding Author), A. Sasse, and M. Wonham. Modelling the Human and Technological Costs and Benefits of USB Memory Stick Security. In M. Eric Johnson, editor, Managing Information Risk and the Economics of Security, pages 141{163. Springer, 2008.
  * [7] A. Beautement and D. Pym. Structured systems economics for security management. In T. Moore, editor, Proc. WEIS 2010, Harvard, 2010. http://weis2010.econinfosec.org/papers/session6/weis2010_beautement.pdf.
  * [8] Y. Beres, D. Pym, and S. Shiu. Decision support for systems security investment. In Proc. Business-driven IT Management (BDIM) 2010. IEEE Xplore, 2010.
  * [9] M. Collinson, B. Monahan, and D. Pym. A logical and computational theory of located resource. Journal of Logic and Computation, 19(b):1207{1244, 2009.
  * [10] M. Collinson, B. Monahan, and D. Pym. A Discipline of Mathematical Systems Modelling. College Publications, 2012.
  * [11] M. Collinson and D. Pym. Algebra and logic for resource-based systems modelling. Mathematical Structures in Computer Science, 19:959{1027, 2009. doi:10.1017/S0960129509990077.
  * [12] M. Collinson and D. Pym. Algebra and logic for access control (erratum). Formal Aspects of Computing, 22(2 (3-4)):83{104 (483{484), 2010. Preprint (incorporating erratum): http://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2008/HPL-2008-75R1.html.
  * [13] Matthew Collinson, Brian Monahan, and David Pym. Semantics for structured systems modelling and simulation. In Proc. Simutools 2010. ACM Digital Library.
  * [14] Matthew Collinson, David Pym, and Barry Taylor. A framework for modelling security architectures in services ecosystems. In Proc. ESOCC 2012, volume 7592 of LNCS, pages 64{79. Springer, 2012.
  * [15] Core Gnosis. http://www.hpl.hp.com/research/systems_security/gnosis.html.
  * [16] George Coulouris, Jean Dollimore, and Tim Kindberg. Distributed Systems: Concepts and Design. Addison Wesley; 3rd edition, 2000.
  * [17] Luciano Floridi. The Philosophy of Information. Oxford University Press, 2011.
  * [18] M. Hennessy and R. Milner. Algebraic laws for nondeterminism and concurrency. J. ACM, 32(1):137{161, 1985.
  * [19] C. Ioannidis, D. Pym, and J. Williams. Investments and trade-offs in the economics of information security. In Roger Dingledine and Philippe Golle, editors, Proceedings of Financial Cryptography and Data Security '09, volume 5628 of LNCS, pages 148{166. Springer, 2009. Preprint available at http://www.cs.bath.ac.uk/~pym/IoannidisPymWilliams-FC09.pdf.
  * [20] Christos Ioannidis, David Pym, and Julian Williams. Information Security Trade-offs and Optimal Patching Policies. European Journal of Operational Research, 2011. doi:10.1016/j.ejor.2011.05.050.
  * [21] R.L. Keeney and H. Raiffa. Decisions with multiple objectives: Preferences and value tradeoffs. Wiley, 1976.
  * [22] S. A. Kripke. Semantical considerations on modal logic. Acta Philosophica Fennica, 16:83{94, 1963.
  * [23] S. A. Kripke. Semantical analysis of intuitionistic logic I. In J. N. Crossley and M. A. E. Dummett, editors, Formal Systems and Recursive Functions, pages 92{130. North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1965.
  * [24] R. Milner. Calculi for synchrony and asynchrony. Theoretical Computer Science, 25(3):267-310, 1983.
  * [25] P.W. O'Hearn and D.J. Pym. The logic of bunched implications. Bulletin of Symbolic Logic, 5(2):215{244, June 1999.
  * [26] Donn Parker. Fighting Computer Crime: A New Framework for Protecting Information. Wiley,1992.
  * [27] Yoav Shoham and Kevin Leyton-Brown. Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic, and Logical Foundations. Cambridge University Press, 2008. 

* * *

### **Ignacio Hernández Antón: A scenario where quantitative and qualitative
approaches to information modelling converge**

**Introduction.**

The Russian cards problem (RCP) is an interesting informational game where
informer and informees are modelled as card players. This game is closely
related to information security where two goals are aimed, namely: be
informative enough to the legitimate agents but, at the same time, not be
informative enough to the intruder. This should result in a differential
impact of information. One of the surprising things here is that it is
possible to reach those goals without encyphering procedures. Another point is
that dynamic epistemic logic (DEL) comes into play as a useful tool to model
informational states and information transmission. Basically, DEL can be
viewed as a formal qualitative approach to information modelling due to non
explicit quantification of information is provided but an accurate way of
modelling agents’ informational states and their changes.

On the other hand, a primitive quantitative possibilistic approach to
information, based on Hartley’s proposal, is considered to play a numerical
flipside role of the logical treatment. The possibilistic approach differs
from Shannon’s stance of information in a way that it is based not on the
concept of probability but on the possibilities space, connecting to the modal
approach of possible worlds.

This paper presents an in-progress work on the convergence of these two fields
via a card game. The talk will focus on presenting some modal epistemic and
dynamic rudiments as well as some quantitative measures over the possibilities
space. Secondly, a short presentation of the Russian card problem and its
logical modelling paralleling quantitative study of the informational states
of agents involved and its dynamics. Some problems are presented as a future
challenges currently being faced in this field. It is obvious that this kind
of study has a philosophical assumptions about the ultimate nature of
information, modelling cognitive states and related issues. The author is open
to those questions but in this work he intentionally puts those debates apart.
Therefore, here he focuses on the concept of information as what it does.

The informational-epistemic scenario. In detail, the Russian card problem is
presented as:

From a pack of seven known cards (for instance 0-6) two players (A, B) each
draw three cards and a third player (C) gets the remaining card. How can the
two first players (those with three cards) openly (publicly) inform each other
about their cards without cyphering the messages and without the third player
learning from any of their cards who holds it? Communication is done by
truthful and public announcements; no private or untruthful message passing is
considered so far. We can wonder about what constitutes a secure announcement
in this scenario. A secure announcement should keep c (the “intruder”)
ignorant throughout the whole communication and guarantee the common knowledge
of this agent’s ignorance. According to that approach, a good protocol
comprises an announcement sequence that in particular verifies that:

Informativeness 1: Principals a and b finally know each other cards.

Informativeness 2: It is common knowledge, at least for the principals, that
they do know each other cards.

Security 1: The intruder, c, remains ignorant always.

Security 2: It is common knowledge for all agents the intruder remains
ignorant.

Knowledge-based: Protocol steps will be modelled as public announcements.

Public announcement: here, a public announcement for an agent a is a set of
a’s possible handsets to hold. If the announcement is successful it will
modify the agents’ informational states. Additionally, if it is also a good
(safe and informative), it will also modify agent’s informational states
according to the expectations from above.

We split the informativeness and security requirements into two parts.
Accordingly, we define Knowledge-based protocol: a knowledge-based protocol
using public announcements is a finite sequence of instructions determining
sequences of announcements. Each agent a chooses an announcement conditional
on that agent’s knowledge. The protocol is assumed common knowledge among all
agents.

An example solution for RCP. One knowledge-based protocol that constitutes a
solution for the riddle is as follows. Suppose that the actual deal of cards
is that agent a has {0, 1, 2}, b has {3, 4, 5} and c has {6}.

  * a says: My hand is one of {012, 046, 136, 145, 235}.
  * Then, b says: c’s card is 6.

After this, it is common knowledge to the three agents that a knows the hand
of b, that b knows the hand of a, and that c is ignorant of the ownership of
any card not held by itself.

Discussion. Using the conceptual arsenal associated to the modal operator, Ki,
I would like to present and discuss how to model information and its
transmission using dynamic epistemic logic and using the next information
possibilistic measures:

H(E) = log2 |E|

IH(E,E′) = log2

|E|

|E′|

where E is the space of possibilities, H(E) a bit-normalized quantification of
information and IH(E,E) tries to capture the informational gain after
informational actions as announcements. Basically, I parallel logic and
information theory for searching a point that can witness an intersection
between the qualitative and quantitative approaches.

**References**

  * [1] Ignacio Hern´andez-Ant´on, Fernando Soler-Toscano and Hans van Ditmarsch Homer J. Simpson. Unconditionally Secure Protocols with Genetic Algorithms.In Advances in Intelligent and Soft Computing, 2012.
  * [2] Ignacio Hernández Antón, Fernando Soler Toscano. Algoritmos Gen´eticos para Generaci´on de Protocolos Incondicionalmente Seguros. Liber Amicorum ´ Angel Nepomuceno. Sevilla, Espana. Fenix Editora. 2010. Pag. 61-68
  * [3] Ralph Hartley. Transmission of Information. Bell System Technical Journal, 1928.
  * [4] Shannon, C. E. A mathematical theory of communication. Bell system technical journal, vol. 27, 1948.
  * [5] B. Walliser. Pieter Adriaans (Editor), Johan F.A.K. van Benthem (Editor), Dov M. Gabbay (Series Editor), Paul Thagard (Series Editor), John Woods (Series Editor). Handbook of Philosophy of Information. Elsevier, 2008.
  * [6] R. Fagin and J.Y. Halpern and Y. Moses and M.Y. Vardi. Reasoning about Knowledge. MIT Press. Cambridge MA, 1995.
  * [7] H. van Ditmarsch. The Russian cards problem. Studia Logica, vol. 75. 2003.
  * [8] H. van Ditmarsch and W. van der Hoek and B. Kooi. Dynamic Epistemic Logic. Synthese Library, vol. 337. Springer. 2007.

* * *

### **Yacin Hamami: When is Deduction Informative in Mathematics?**

**Introduction and Motivations.**

To provide a philosophical account of the Information obtained by Deduction
(IoD) has been one of the central issues in the philosophy of information.
Triggered by Hintikka so-called Scandal of Deduction [9, 10], several authors
[1, 2, 11, 17] have recently proposed different philosophical and logical
accounts of how we obtain information by deduction, aiming in particular to
overcome the limitations of Hintikka’s original proposal. However, all these
approaches have been developed in a restricted context: (i) they have focused
on logical deduction and (ii) they have not taken in account the more general
epistemic activities in which deduction is taking place. A similar observation
has been made by van Benthem and Martinez in a short paragraph of [18]: Proof
theory is often considered the most upper-class part of logic, dealing with
crystalline mathematical structures where all traces of real human reasoning
have been removed. But a return to the _real world_ occurs as soon as we ask
what _good_ the information does which is created and transformed by
inference. [. . . ] Deduction seems informative only for people engaged in
_certain tasks_ [. . . ]. This agent-orientation seems the right setting for
understanding how an inference can inform us, and sometimes even surprise us,
contradicting previous beliefs. (my emphases) [18, p. 275]

This not only constitutes an important observation, but also an interesting
proposal for developing an account of IoD which would (i) look at real world
deduction and (ii) take in account the particular epistemic task in which the
agent is engaged in. The premise of this talk is that mathematics constitutes
the archetypal human activity in which such a real-world, activity-sensitive,
notion of IoD is operating.2 To investigate it, one can turn to the important
philosophical literature on mathematical proofs [5, 6, 12], one of the central
topics of study in the philosophy of mathematics. We shall then see in this
talk that a rich variety of notions of IoD has emerged in the philosophy of
mathematical proofs, offering thereby several interesting notions of IoD to be
studied and conceptualized within the framework of the philosophy of
information.

**Aim and Approach.**

The specific aim of this talk is thus to identify different notions of IoD in
the specific context of mathematical proofs in mathematical practice. The
first and obvious one is of course the situation in which deduction is used
for obtaining knowledge of a theorem that has not yet been proved. Even though
this case seems trivial at first sight, it is indeed quite subtle. The reason
is that different theorems are not equally informative in the course of
mathematical inquiry. This point can be traced back to Poincaré’s philosophy
of mathematics [13, 14], and we shall see that a reconstruction of Poincaré’s
epistemology of proof proposed by Detlefsen [4] offers a first grasp on this
issue. We will then look at situations in which deduction is informative in
mathematics even though it does not consist in proving previously unknown
theorems. More specifically, We will focus in turn on three important
phenomena that have been extensively discussed in the philosophy of
mathematical proofs—re-proving already proved theorems, failing proof
attempts, providing formal proofs of already proved theorems—and we will see
that a variety of notions of IoD is lying within these different phenomena. We
will conclude the talk by wrapping up the different notions of IoD identified,
and we will discuss whether a general characterization scheme can be provided.
As a first attempt, we will examine the following proposal: A deduction is
informative in mathematics if and only if it contributes to a mathematical
activity.

§1. Information from Proving Theorems. Not any theorem, and therefore not any
deduction, is equally informative in the course of mathematical inquiry. This
point was already noted by Poincaré [13, 14], and in order to make it explicit
in his reconstruction of Poincaré’s epistemology of proof, Detlefsen
introduced in [4] the notion of a mathematical architecture and stated that:
“knowledge of an architecture is thus something like knowledge of a strategy
for playing a game” [4, p. 364]. In this part of the talk, we will present
Poincaré’s view that deduction is informative if and only if it contributes to
a mathematical architecture, and we will see that, for Poincaré, whether
deduction is informative in mathematical inquiry is a strategic issue.

§2. Information from Re-Proving Theorems. Dawson [3] has provided an extensive
study of the many reasons why mathematicians re-prove theorems. This is
particularly interesting since, from a naive perspective, one could expect
that there is no information to gain from re-proving an already known theorem.
Dawson lists eight different reasons, and we shall see that each of them leads
to a particular notion of IoD.

§3. Information from Failed Proof Attempts. In his seminal paper [15], Rav
developed several examples of attempts to prove theorems that fail to meet the
original goal, but yet produce important advances in mathematics. According to
Rav, one of the main interests that sometimes emerge in failed proof attempts
is the development of new methods. This is an important notion of IoD in
mathematics: in this case, the information provided by the deduction does not
lie in proving the considered theorem, since it simply fails to do so, but
rather into the capacity of the deduction to offer a new method that can then
be used to establish other theorems.

§4. Information from Formal Proofs. Formal verification is an emerging field
at the crossroad of mathematics and computer science that aims to provide
completely formalized proofs of mathematical theorems which can then be
checked mechanically by a computer.3 How could it be that a formal proof—a
completely formal deduction—provides additional information to its informal
counterpart? We shall see that the notion of IoD at stake here has to do with:
(i) managing the complexity of the development of mathematics and (ii)
increasing the certainty in mathematical theorems.

§5. Towards a General Characterization? In this last part, we will wrap up the
different notions of IoD identified in the talk. The natural question will
then be: is there a general characterization scheme under which these
different notions of IoD can be subsumed? We will first look at the different
proposals to capture the IoD in the case of logical inference that has been
proposed by Hintikka [10], Sequoiah-Grayson [17], D’Agostino and Floridi [2]
and Jago [11].

We will then argue that none of them can provide such a general
characterization scheme due to the fact that they do not not take in account
the general activity in which deduction is taking place. We will then discuss
the following characterization proposal: a deduction is informative in
mathematics if and only if it contributes to a mathematical activity. The
issue will then be to answer the two following questions: (i) what is a
mathematical activity? (ii) in which sense can a deduction contribute to a
mathematical activity?

See the special issue of the Notices of the American Mathematical Society [7,
8] for an overview of these developments.

Conclusion. The philosophy of information and the philosophy of mathematics
have not yet met. We hope to show in this talk that the philosophy of
mathematics, through its investigation of mathematical proofs, offers a rich
variety of notions of IoD waiting to be studied and conceptualized within the
framework of the philosophy of information. The notions identified in this
talk are very likely to be the tip of the iceberg, and many others remain to
be identified and explored.

**References**

  * [1] P. Allo. On Logics and Being Informative. PhD thesis, CLWF, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,2007.
  * [2] M. D’Agostino and L. Floridi. The enduring scandal of deduction. Synthese, 167(2):271–315, 2009.
  * [3] J.W. Dawson. Why do mathematicians re-prove theorems? Philosophia Mathematica, 14(3):269–286, 2006.
  * [4] M. Detlefsen. Poincaré against the logicians. Synthese, 90(3):349–378, 1992.
  * [5] M. Detlefsen. Proof and Knowledge in Mathematics. Routledge, 1992.
  * [6] B. Gold and R.A. Simons. Proof and Other Dilemmas: Mathematics and Philosophy. Mathematical Association of America, 2008.
  * [7] T.C. Hales. Formal proof. Notices of the AMS, 55(11):1370–1380, 2008.
  * [8] J. Harrison. Formal proof–theory and practice. Notices of the AMS, 55(11):1395–1406, 2008.
  * [9] J. Hintikka. Information, deduction, and the a priori. Noûs, 4(2):135–152, 1970.
  * [10] J. Hintikka. Surface information and depth information. In J. Hintikka and P. Suppes, editors, Information and Inference, pages 263–297. Synthese Library, New York, 1970.
  * [11] M. Jago. The content of deduction. Journal of Philosophical Logic, pages 1–18, 2012.
  * [12] P. Mancosu. The Philosophy of Mathematical Practice. Oxford University Press, 2008.
  * [13] H. Poincaré. Les mathématiques et la logique. Revue de Métaphysique et de Morale, pages 294–317, 1906.
  * [14] H. Poincaré. La Valeur de la Science. E. Flammarion, 1908.
  * [15] Y. Rav. Why do we prove theorems? Philosophia Mathematica, 7(1):5–41, 1999.
  * [16] S. Sequoiah-Grayson. The scandal of deduction. Journal of philosophical logic, 37(1):67–94, 2008.
  * [17] S. Sequoiah-Grayson. A positive information logic for inferential information. Synthese, 167(2):409–431, 2009.
  * [18] J. van Benthem and M. Martinez. The stories of logic and information. In J. van Benthem and P. Adriaans, editors, Handbook of the Philosophy of Information, Handbook of the Philosophy of Science. Elsevier, 2007.

* * *

### **Francesco Berto & Jacopo Tagliabue: Either the World is Digital or Not
**

In recent important works Luciano Floridi (2009, 2011) has raised an ingenious
challenge to the tautological status of the proposition expressed by our
title. The argument is at the core of Floridi’s two-stage project in
informational ontology: a _pars destruens_ highlighting the shortcomings of
_digital ontology_ , and a _pars construens_ putting forward a new
informational picture of reality's fundamental layer, called “Informational
Structural Realism” (ISR). Digital ontology is based on the claim (DO) that
“The ultimate nature of reality is digital” (Floridi 2009, p. 151). For
Floridi, DO is not entailed by information-inspired ontology as such: by
showing that the former is “not a promising line of research” (Ibid, p. 176),
we can properly set the stage for the development of Floridi’s ISR. DO as such
may not imply _pan-computationalism_ : the view that the physical universe is
a big Turing machine-like device (see Piccinini, 2010, § 3.1). Floridi’s
strategy is notable: he does not aim at showing that reality is _not_ a
cellular automaton; nor does he claim that we just cannot address the issue
effectively, due to insurmountable cognitive limitations. Rather, he directly
attacks the (alleged) tautology expressed by the title, according to which the
world is digital or the world is not digital (henceforth: D v ~D).

Floridi’s argument has two main steps:

(F1) He provisionally grants D v ~D, but shows that an agent can never know
that DO is true.

(F2) He claims that the result in (F1) is not just an epistemic limitation,
but is due to the very nature of the concept at hand. Digital and analogue are
features of modes of presentation of reality, not of reality, and the initial
concession in (F1) must be withdrawn. (see Floridi 2009, p. 160).

Floridi’s full-fledged argument for (F1) and (F2) is an ornate 11-page long
thought experiment involving four angels. Here we summarize the crucial step
in the experiment with the following claim (see Floridi 2009, p. 169-170):

It is possible to use digital-to-analogue and analogue-to-digital converters
to switch the nature of the layer presented to the observer of the Universe,
disregarding completely the question whether the Universe itself was digital
or analogue in the first place.

We raise two difficulties for Floridi’s metaphysical picture:

1)   _The objection from counting_ : the D v ~D-issue may boil down to a
question about the number of things. As such Floridi very correctly presents
it. In his step (F1) (see Floridi 2009, Section 3.1), he describes Michael’s
(his first angel’s) epistemic position, which “enjoys a God’s eye view of
reality in itself” (p. 162). He shapes the stuff constituting reality by
applying a total ordering relation, so the result can be represented as a
line. Then Michael uses his maximally sharp sword to Dedekind-cut the line,
i.e., to figuratively map reality via Dedekind cuts to the real number line;
what Michael is doing, emblematic representation aside, is counting: working
towards establishing the number of things. Take the totality of things in the
(physical) universe _._ If such a totality is in one-to-one correspondence
with R, then the world is not digital, ~D (Michael’s sword always hits some
_thing_ ): reality is dense and continuous. If not, so that sooner or later
Michael’s sword does not hit any _thing_ , then the world is digital, D:
either it’s not dense, or it is but still it’s enumerable, that is,
equinumerous with Q. Now the D v ~D-issue boils down to this: either there are
finitely-or-denumerably-many things, or not. How can this be a _satzklang_? “D
v ~D” can be a category mistake, only if it makes no sense to speak of the
number of things in the (physical) world. How can it be nonsensical to ask the
question of how many things there are? Thus, the assumption D v ~D in (F1)
ought not to be retracted. The question of the number of things makes perfect
sense, and so does, thus understood, the question of whether the world is
digital or not. And so D v ~D is not a wannabe-tautology or a _satzklang_ ,
but a real tautology. And so it is true.

2)   _The objection from mereology_ : it has long been recognized that
mereology (alone, or in conjunction with topology) allows for a neat, rigorous
formal treatment of the ontology of the spatiotemporal world and its
properties (see for example Casati, Varzi 1999). Once the usual axioms for the
_parthood_ relation are introduced (anti-simmetry, transitivity, reflexivity),
one can add other mereological principles to further specify the intended
model for the interpretation of the formal theory; in particular, one can ask
whether there are objects in the domain which have no proper parts (the
atomicity axiom), allowing us to precisely distinguish analogue/digital
universe within the theory. Floridi’s own ontology is thus committed to one of
the following claims: either _parthood_ itself has no place at all in Reality
(but then it becomes hard to understand the “patterns” ISR talks about), or
some axioms of mereology quantify over objects, others quantify over
_representation_ of objects (which appears to be very implausible).

Finally, as concluding remarks we sketch a pair of possible ways out for the
structural ontologist – all of which include unpalatable changes to the logic
of identity – and suggest that the study of digital ontology may indeed be a
worthy, multidisciplinary enterprise involving philosophy, information
sciences, A.I. **.**

* * *

### **Luciano Floridi:** **Maker’s Knowledge and the Synthetic Uninformative**

In this presentation, I begin by discussing the three standard distinctions
used to qualify propositional knowledge: _analytic_ vs. _synthetic_ , _a
priori_ vs. _a posteriori_ , and _necessary_ vs. _contingent_. The ultimate
goal is to understand what kind of knowledge is the so-called maker’s
knowledge, as when Alice (knows or rather) is informed (holds the information)
that Bob’s coffee is sweetened because she just put two spoons of sugar in it.
In the course of the presentation, I shall argue that:

  1. we need to decouple a fourth distinction, namely _informative_ vs. _uninformative_ , from the previous three, in particular from its implicit association with _analytic_ vs. _synthetic_ and/or _a priori_ vs. _a posteriori_ ;
  2. such decoupling facilitates, and is facilitated by, moving from a propositional to an agent-oriented approach: the distinctions qualify a proposition, a message, or a set of well-formed, meaningful and truthful data not just in themselves but with respect to an information agent;
  3. the decoupling and the agent-oriented approach enable a re-mapping of currently available positions (Classic, Innatist, Kant’s and Kripke’s) on these four dichotomies; and
  4. within such a re-mapping, a fifth position, capturing the nature of a maker’s information in terms of these four dichotomies, is best described as the synthetic uninformative. 

* * *

### **Nir Fresco, Aditya Ghose, Patrick McGivern: Types of Information
Processed by Cognitive Agents**  

Our paper deals with the role that information plays in cognition. More
specifically, we ask ‘What types of information are required for cognition?’.
Three answers are presented though _not_ on a par.

  1. Cognition requires factual information and instructional information (Floridi, forthcoming, 2011, 2012).
  2. Cognition requires, at the very least, instructional information and descriptive information, which includes factual information and hypothetical information.
  3. Cognition requires cognitive information, direct regulative information and direct affective information (Burgin, 2010).

According to the first answer, factual information, which is understood as
well-formed, meaningful and truthful data, upgrades to knowledge- _that iff_
it is correctly accounted for (Floridi, forthcoming, 2012). Instructional
information, which is understood as well-formed, meaningful data that are
prescriptive rather than descriptive, is the basis for knowledge- _how_
(Floridi, 2011). Therefore, cognition requires factual information and
instructional information.

According to the second answer, which is endorsed in this paper, whilst
instructional information and factual information are certainly required for
cognition, so do other forms of hypothetical information. Cognition requires
instances of factual information that depends on external truth conditions
(e.g., ‘This smoke means there is/was fire’) for knowledge-that. It also
requires instructional information as the basis for knowledge-how. However,
cognition also requires hypothetical information, such as assumptions,
presuppositions and conjectures, whose truth-value is less pertinent to the
behaviour of the cognitive agent. Hypothetical information is characterised in
terms of available evidence. Conjectures, particularly in science, are often
put forward without conclusive evidence for trial. Similarly, presuppositions
are often made in either a line of argument or some course of action without
conclusive evidence. The same applies in the case of cognitive agents in the
course of belief revision. According to the third answer, which classifies
information as a _property_ rather than as _semantic data_ (or a _thing_ ),
there are three types of information required for cognition (Burgin, 2010).

The first type is _cognitive_ information, which is any information that
induces changes in the agent’s system of knowledge. The second type is direct
regulative information, which is any information that changes the content of
the agent’s system of will and instincts. The third type is direct affective
information, which is any information that changes the content of the agent’s
system of affective states (e.g., emotions, moods and motivations). Cognition
requires these three types of information. Will, for example, controls
emotions and reasoning; and positive emotions help in learning and
remembering. These three answers are neither exhaustive nor mutually
exclusive. The second answer is an extension of the first one adding another
subcategory of descriptive information, namely, hypothetical information. The
third answer approaches information differently from the two preceding
answers: it associates the information type with the changes the information
induces in different subsystems of the cognitive agent. The first two answers,
on the other hand, associate information with semantics, since at the core of
_all_ the types of information identified is semantic content (i.e.,
meaningful structured data). Our primary objective is to emphasize that an
ontological distinction between types of information alone is insufficient to
determine their contribution to cognition. Rather, equal focus should be given
to the way information is _used_ by cognitive agents. This is the approach
adopted by both the second and third answers. Further, an inquiry that is
limited exclusively to either exogenous sources of information (i.e.,
perceptual information) or endogenous sources of information (e.g., the agent
reflecting on its current state of belief) is not rich enough for determining
how the information affects the agent’s cognitive behaviour. Here too, the
second answer encompasses both exogenous and endogenous sources of
information. We note that, strictly, the scope of the analysis underlying the
first answer is confined to knowledge (rather thancognition broadly).

To support our view of the types of information needed for cognition we show
how they partake in formal models of belief change in rational agents. We
present some aspects in formal models of belief change to underscore the
importance of hypothetical information in modelling cognitive processing.
Despite many developments in belief change in the last three decades, the AGM
model (named after its inventors Carlos Alchourrón, Peter Gärdenfors and David
Makinson (1985)) remains the standard model to which all other models of are
compared. On this model, there are three basic types of changes of belief:
expansion, revision and contraction. Expansion is a simple way of modelling
the addition of a new belief based on new data to the agent’s current belief
set where no inconsistency is identified. Revision is a way of modelling
belief change when new data contradicts at least one belief currently held by
the agent. Either the previously accepted belief _A_ is rejected or the
previously accepted belief ¬ _A_ is changed to _A_ being accepted. Lastly,
contraction is the case where at least one belief in the agent’s belief set is
retracted without adding a new belief and minimizing information loss.

The take-home message is that natural cognitive agents do not use only
perceptual information as the basis for rational behaviour. The AGM model is
certainly not problem-free (Hansson, 2003). For example, belief sets of
people, who are assumed to have finite cognitive capacity, cannot always be
closed under logical consequence, since they can be infinite (Wassermann,
2001, p. 349). The requirement for closure under consequence may be dropped.
Importantly, information flows in two ways: we use perceptual information, but
also previously stored information when engaging with our environment. Some of
this stored information may be questioned when we conjecture about some aspect
of a phenomenon without sufficient evidence or when we consider the
consequences of some presupposition for what we already believe. This type of
information, which we call hypothetical information, should not be discounted
nor classified as merely pseudo-information.

**References**

  * Alchourrón, C. E., Gärdenfors, P., & Makinson, D. (1985). On the Logic of Theory Change: Partial Meet Contraction and Revision Functions. _The Journal of Symbolic Logic_ , _50_ (2), 510–530.
  * Burgin, M. (2010). _Theory of information: fundamentality, diversity and unification_. Hackensack, NJ: World Scientific Pub Co Inc.
  * Floridi, L. (forthcoming). Perception and Testimony as Data Providers. _Logique et Analyse_.
  * Floridi, L. (2011). A Defence of Constructionism: Philosophy as Conceptual Engineering. _Metaphilosophy_ , _42_ (3), 282–304.
  * Floridi, L. (2012). Semantic information and the network theory of account. _Synthese_ , _184_ (3), 431–454.
  * Hansson, S. O. (2003). Ten Philosophical Problems in Belief Revision. _Journal of Logic and Computation_ , _13_ (1), 37–49.
  * Wassermann, R. (2001). On Structured Belief Bases. In M. A. Williams & H. Rott (eds.), _Frontiers in belief revision_. Dordrecht; Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers.

* * *

### **George M. Coghill: On Model-based Systems and Qualitative Reasoning with
reference to the Philosophy of Information**

  * _Qualitative is nothing but poor quantitative._ – Ernest Rutherford
  * _Quantitative is nothing but poor qualitative._ – Christopher Zeeman
  * _The purpose of Computing is insight, not numbers._ – Richard Hamming

**Introduction**

How one views the importance or usefulness of qualitative information depends
on one’s perspective and the context within which one is operating. The first
two quotations at the beginning of this abstract highlight this. The first was
written by a nuclear physicist in a context where precision of models was of
paramount importance. The second was stated by a topologist, an area where the
qualitative features identified in a theory are the most important.

There is a view that within science the term ‘qualitative’ has a pejorative
feel. This may be seen, for example, in the move from functional genomics to
quantitative systems biology. Even within the Philosophy of Information the
impression is sometimes given that more abstract or qualitative information is
somehow deficient in various ways [9, 10] In this abstract I shall address
some of these issues and suggest that, contrary to the perceived view,
qualitative information is complementary to quantitative information and can
sometimes provide more insight than quantitative information. The final
quotation above highlights the unifying factor in all this: regardless of the
level abstraction at which it is presented, the output of a simulation or
information should provide some insight. This is preliminary work that I hope
can learn from, and possibly contribute to, the Philosophy of Information (as
well as the Philosophy of Modelling and Simulation).

**Model-Based Systems and Qualitative Reasoning**

Model Based Systems and Qualitative Reasoning  (MBS&QR) has evolved as a topic
within AI, in part to overcome some of the perceived problems with Expert
Systems: in particular the shallow, associational nature of the reasoning. It
has been variously called, amongst other things, Naive Physics, Deep Knowledge
Based Systems, Second Generation Expert Systems. A key feature of MBS&QR is
abstraction and approximation. This manifests itself both in regard to the the
domain of the variables that, in the most abstract case may take values from
the set of the signs (+, 0, or –), and the relations in the models themselves,
in particular the constitutive relations, where, again in the most abstract
case, they simply identify that there is a monotonic relation between two
variables (represented, for example, as _M_ +( _x; y_ )).

This abstraction gives rise to qualitative models of various kinds [13, 14].
One example of these are Qualitative Differential Equations (QDEs) [14], which
are an abstraction of ODEs. In fact these two kinds of differential equation
may be seen as forming the two ends of a spectrum of model abstractions. We
have developed a system named, Morven, [2, 3] that enables the construction of
models at any point on this spectrum (qualitative, fuzzy qualitative, interval
and numerical).

MBS&QR has also contributed in a variety of ways to the process of modelling
in general. One approach, Compositional Modelling [11], has provided a direct
basis for a general modeling framework: CML [12] as well as an indirect
influence on the development of the award winning Systems Biology tool, Little
B [16].

**Sometimes less is more**

The imprecision inherent in QR is its strength. The result of certain
operations is ambiguous. That is, they yield more than one, in fact all,
qualitatively distinct possibilities. Each behaviour and state generated by a
QR engine will contain less information than their more precise cousins.
However, the ambiguity available permits one to gain a global picture of the
way a system may behave, albeit at a qualitative level. This can be extremely
useful in a number of circumstances. For example, in a system as simple as a
single tank (or wash hand basin if you prefer) there are three possible
behaviours (excluding the possibility of overflow): the level of fluid may
rise to a steady state, it may already be at steady state or it may fall to
the steady state, depending on whether the initial level of fluid was below,
at, or above the equilibrium level. A single pass through the inference engine
will provide all three, qualitatively distinct, possibilities. On the other
hand, given precise values for the parameters and initial values, and an exact
form for the relations in the model, the result of numerical simulation is a
single precise trajectory (that will exhibit the shape of one of the
qualitative behaviours).

Given these outcomes, it seems reasonable to think of qualitative and
numerical simulation as complementary, and able to address different question
about system models. That is, depending on whether a global or local picture
is desired; and that is a contextual issue. So for example, in a design
situation where the possibility of entering a dangerous state is of interest,
a global picture may contain more relevant information than a precise one,
whereas predicting when a particular state will be reached will require
precise information.

Another issue related to this regards the accuracy, or correctness of
simulations and predictions. When matching a simulation against measured time
series, there are inevitably errors, or inaccuracies, between the two, if for
no other reason than that there is no such thing as a perfect model. In such
situations one may overcome this (to some extent) by abstracting the
prediction from numerical to interval, fuzzy or qualitative. That is one may
increase the correctness by reducing the precision [15]. This result resonates
with the sentiments of Zeeman quoted above and articulated so clearly by René
Thom in a recent lecture [19]. The abstraction in shifting the domain of the
variables from rational numbers to qualitative values seems to map to one
aspect of Floridi’s Levels of Abstraction, and MBS&QR has provided a useful
framework for reasoning about models in general by means of model dimensions,
exploring relational and structural approximations [4, 15]. It is also known
that a single model is not suitable for all situation, which leads one to use
these dimensions to generate multiple models, and identify model switching
strategies for moving between them [1, 5]. It will be interesting to
investigate the relation between Model Switching and the Gradient of
Abstraction [10].

**Applications**

MBS&QR has been applied to an extensive range of domains2. The most obvious
application is simulaton, as has been noted already. The inverse operation to
simulation is _ab initio_ model learning; this is the qualitative analogue to
system identification whereby time series data is used to learn a qualitative
model that can account for and explain the data [6, 18]. This research has
been carried out in the context of systems biology, where, despite concerted
efforts to obtain significant amounts of precise time series data, it still
remains the case that there are many situations where some observations of
sub-cellular entities do not provide a particularly high degree of precision;
and even where they do it is often the case that the time series data is
sparse, making full system identification rather difficult to achieve. The
resulting qualitative models may then be used both as standalone models or as
a first step towards identifying quantitative models as and when more data
becomes available.

For large scale process plant, on the other hand, precise measurements are
relatively easy to obtain, though they may be quite expensive and _a fortiori_
the construction of quantitative models awkward to the extent that there is no
incentive to develop them. In such cases it is possible that qualitative
models of the relevant systems can be built relatively straightforwardly,
whether by hand or automatically. These models may then be used, for example,
to perform Model-based Diagnosis when things go wrong [7] and even provide an
abstract form of parameter estimation: _Qualitative Parameter Estimation_ [8].

While these applications provide information in the form variable values,
models, or changes in models, they do so in a way that requires human
linguistic interpretation for communication and criticism. However,
communication normally takes place through the medium of natural language, and
the information contained in the predictions from a qualitative models provide
the means of giving Natural Language Generation explantations of the data
based on the structural relations in the model [17].

Finally, to reiterate, this nascent work suggests that there is something to
be gained from continuing to explore the full range of model types, and their
relation to Philosophy of Information. Ultimately, of the three statements at
the beginning of this abstract only Hamming’s can be counted as generally
accurate.

**Acknowledgement**

GMC is supported by the CRISP project (Combinatorial Responses In Stress
Pathways) funded under the BBSRC Systems Approaches to Biological Research
(SABR) Initiative (BB/F00513X/1).

**References**

  * [1] S. Addanki, R. Cremonini and J. S. Penberthy, Graph of Models _Artificial Intelligence_ , 51,1991, 145 – 177.
  * [2] A. Bruce and G. M. Coghill, Parallel Fuzzy Qualitative Reasoning. In B Rinner, M Hofbaur & F Wotowa (ed), _Proc. 19th International Workshop on Qualitative Reasoning_ (Graz, Austria), Pp 110–116, 2005.
  * [3] G. M. Coghill _Mycroft: A Framework for Constraint Based Fuzzy Qualitative Reasoning_. Ph.D. Thesis, Department of Computing and Electrical Engineering, Heriot-Watt University, 1996.
  * [4] G. M. Coghill, Model-based Reasoning as Smart Adaption, _International Journal of General Systems_ , 33(5), Pp 485–504, 2004.
  * [5] G. M. Coghill and Q. Shen, Towards the specification of models for diagnosis of dynamic system, _AI Communications_ , 14(2), 93 – 104, 2001.
  * [6] G. M. Coghill, A. Srinivasan, and R. King, Qualitative system identification from imperfect data, _Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR)_ , 32, 825 – 877, 2008.
  * [7] G. M. Coghill, and G. Wu, Incremental Model-based Diagnosis, _Advanced Engineering Informatics_ , 23, 309–322, 2009.
  * [8] G. M. Coghill and H. Al-Ballaa, Diagnosis via Qualitative Parameter Estimation, _Proc. 11th UK Workshop on Computational Intelligence, (UKCI-11)_ , Manchester, 7-9 Sept. 2011(CD)
  * [9] L. Floridi The method of levels of abstraction, _Minds and Machines_ , 18.3, 303-329, 2008.
  * [10] L. Floridi _The Philosophy of Information_ , OUP, 2011.
  * [11] B. Falkenhainer and K. D. Forbus, Compositional modelling: finding the right model for the job, _Artificial Intelligence_ , 51, 1991, 95 – 143.
  * [12] B. Falkenhainer, A. Farquhar, D. Bobrow, R. Fikes, K. Forbus, T. Gruber, Y. Iwasaki, and B. Kuipers. CML: a compositional modeling language. _Stanford University, Technical_ _Report KSL-94-16_ 1994.
  * [13] K. Forbus Qualitative Process Theory, _Artificial Intelligence_ , 24, 1984, 85–168.
  * [14] B. Kuipers Qualitative Simulation _Artificial Intelligence_ , 29, 1986, 280 – 338.
  * [15] R. Leitch, Q. Shen, G. M. Coghill and M. Chantler, On choosing the right model, _IEE proceedings D: Control Theory and Applications_ , 146(5), 435 – 449, 1999.
  * [16] A. Mallavarapu, M. Thomson, B. Ullian and J. Gunawardena Programming with models: modularity and abstraction provide powerful capabilities for systems biology, _J. R. Soc._ _Interface_ , 6 257–270, 2009.
  * [17] D. Matheson, S. Sripada, G. M. Coghill, Integrating Natural Language Generation and Model-based Reasoning for explanation generation, _Proc. 12th UK Workshop on Computational_ _Intelligence (UKCI-12)_ , Heriot Watt University, 2012.
  * [18] W. Pang, and G. M. Coghill, An immune-inspired approach to qualitative system identification of biological pathways, _Natural Computing_ , 10(1), 189–20, 2011.
  * [19] R. Thom, http://www.philosophy.hku.hk/courses/sciences/qual/thom13a.htm

* * *

### **Orlin Vakarelov:Information Qualities – A Structural Perspective**

By _information quality_ I mean any dimension of evaluation of information
that is not a measure of quantity, whether Shannon style or other. Some
dimensions of evaluation may be based on discrete or continuous categories,
some may be represented by numbers (as magnitudes), and some may be
represented by other mathematical objects, such as vectors, tensors, sets or
others.  

By a _structural perspective_ to information I mean the view that all aspects
of information are definable completely in terms of the possible
“informational” transformations of the system containing the information. Here
information is taken to consist of data that (may) have semantic and pragmatic
characterization; that is, data that are meaningful and usable (and truthful).
That meaning and pragmatics should be evaluated purely
relationally/transformationally is not controversial. The structural is most
novel as a theory of data. It assumes that the data itself is determined by
the transformations (possible read and write operations). In most general
terms, it is assumed that the information carrier is a system that may be in
one of many possible states – the micro-states of the system. The information
vehicles of the system, the possible data, are sets of micro-states. Those
macro-states are determined by the transformations. A system like this is
called an _information_ _medium_. The data of the medium is determined by its
relation to other information media, within a larger information media
network. The structural perspective is that, ultimately, the structure of the
network, its connection to other (non-information) systems and its use by
agents determine its informational properties.

Most analyses and classifications of information qualities are rather
haphazard. One reason for this is the vague nature of the notion of
information quality. Another is the lack of a broader systematic framework to
investigate information in its many facets. The structural perspective more
generally, and the information media network approach more specifically, can
offer more structure to investigating different information qualities. This
talk will demonstrate how many dimensions of evaluation of information fall
out naturally from the structure of relations within the network, the
interaction between information media and the physical world (at the level of
micro-states), and the integration of information media in the behavior of
cognitive agents (usually humans, whose cognitive operation can also be viewed
as an operation of an information network). Of special interest will be the
phenomenon where the information of a medium is evaluated based on the ability
to transform the information in another form (to another medium) and apply
another quality (or quantity) measure in the other medium. It will be shown
that many interesting information qualities are based on translations of
qualities from other media.

The talk will aim to offer primarily a methodology of analysis, rather than a
complete classification of information qualities discussed in the literature.
It will be one of the consequences of the translation analysis of qualities,
that an indefinite dimensions of evaluation of information may be defined. It
is a separate question which are useful.

* * *

### **Marco Benini& Federico Gobbo: Measuring Computational Complexity: the
Qualitative and Quantitative Intertwining of Algorithm Comparison** **  
**

This paper wants to discuss an aspect of information in Computer Science (CS)
that is quantitative and qualitative at the same time: measuring. It is a fact
that measuring is the basic act of modern science first and engineering later.
Also in the common use of the word, measuring is often described as
‘describing a phenomenon by a number’. Nevertheless, in CS, this meaning is
not always respected, in particular in the field of computational
complexity—one of the essential parts of the discipline. The theory of
computational complexity is the branch of theoretical CS which studies the
efficiency of algorithms in terms of time, i.e., the number of steps to
perform a complete computation, and space, i.e., the quantity of memory cells
which are needed to obtain a result. Of course, an algorithm A is more
efficient than an algorithm B when it uses less the resource we want to
minimise—either time or space. Here, a relevant problem arises: the time (and
the space) needed to perform a computation depends on the input. Researchers,
see, e.g., (Papadimitriou, 1994), in CS have abstracted over the input by
considering only its size: therefore, choosing between two algorithms A and B
means to consider the worst performance of an algorithm A for an input of size
n, the worst performance of an algorithm B for an input of the same size, and
to extend this comparison to every n. Thus, A is more efficient than B if, for
every n, the time A spends to compute the result on the worst input of size n
is less than the time B uses to perform the same task on its worst input of
size n. The abstraction means that the complexity of an algorithm A becomes a
function, assigning to each number n the time needed by A to compute the
result on its worst input of size n. When we ask to compare two algorithms, we
really want to compare their complexities; the long-term behaviour is then
captured by saying that one function definitely dominates the other one, using
the jargon of mathematical analysis. In this way, experts really measure
efficiency of algorithms using functions instead of numbers—in other words,
the nature of the information produced hereby is not completely quantitative,
if we follow the definition stated at the beginning of this paper.

As a result, in most real-world cases algorithms result to be incomparable in
practice, as each one may be more efficient than the other one for some values
of n. So, researchers turned around this problem by observing that what really
matters is the long-term behaviour of an algorithm. The fundamental question
is: when n is “big enough”, which algorithm under consideration performs
better? We consider the act of measuring the complexity of a pair of
algorithms as an act of producing information, where ‘information’ is intended
in the sense used within the Philosophy of Information (PI).1 The act is
performed by an informational organism (inforg), where the biological agent is
the algorithm expert, the engineered artifact being the measure of complexity
of the algorithms under scrutiny, which are their primary Level of Abstraction
of interest. It is worth noticing, that this algorithmic inforg eventually
generates an indefinite number of computational inforgs, i.e., inforgs whose
artificial counterpart is a kind of computing machine based on the algorithm
chosen, typically based on Von Neumann’s model (Gobbo and Benini, 2013).
However, the software produced over the algorithms is not part of their 1st
order ontological commitment (i.e., their knowable observables, in terms of
relational structures) but possibly to a 2nd order ontological commitment
(Floridi, 2011, 351–352). Furthermore, the pieces of information collectively
produced by the algorithmic inforgs gives a new Level of Explanation (LoE), a
sort of second-order qualitative change in the classification of algorithms
themselves. According to their ontological commitment, algorithmic inforgs
observe, compare, and finally classify algorithms, i.e., their complexities,
an activity which can be carried on only by the human part of the inforg
(Gobbo and Benini, forthcoming). It emerged that sometimes the complexity
associated to some algorithms exhibit a behaviour which is similar to the one
of a polynomial; in some other cases, the complexity grows much faster, as the
exponential function or even more. This fact introduces the new LoE, which
classify algorithms in two parts: the ones which are ‘feasible’ (polynomial)
and the ones which are ‘practically uncomputable’ (exponential). Again, this
LoE is both qualitative and quantitative. This distinction is codified in the
so-called extended Church-Turing thesis which says that the only practically
computable problems are the ones admitting a polynomial algorithm able to
compute them.

The search for the borderline between feasible and unfeasible algorithms is
still unclear. In fact, each polynomial algorithms operating on a non-
deterministic Turing machine can be easily simulated on a deterministic
machine by trying all the possible non-deterministic paths: the complexity of
the simulated algorithm is exponential. However, a subclass of those
algorithms, the ‘decision procedures’, is particularly relevant. This class is
called NP in literature and the problem if NP is distinct from P, the class of
polynomial algorithms on a deterministic machine, is the most important and
well-known open problem in theoretical CS, thus an eminently qualitative
problem whose solving attempts have generated an immense amount of knowledge
and ideas in the last 40 years, see, e.g., (Savage, 1998).

In the sequel of this paper, we will explore some consequences of the conducts
of algorithmic inforgs, which go beyond the scope of CS. In fact, as
effectively put by Barry Cooper: ‘algorithms, as a way of traversing our four
dimensions, have been with us for literally thousands of years. They provide
recipes for the control and understanding of every aspect of everyday life
(Cooper, 2012, 776).’

**References**

  * Cooper, S. B. (2012), ‘ _Incomputability after Alan Turing’_ , Notices of the AMS 59(6), 776–784.
  * Floridi, L. (2011), _The Philosophy of Information_ , Oxford University Press, Oxford.
  * Gobbo, F. and Benini, M. (2013), ‘The Minimal Levels of Abstraction in the History of Modern Computing’, _Philosophy & Technology_ pp. 1–17. URL: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13347-012-0097-0
  * Gobbo, F. and Benini, M. (forthcoming), ‘Why zombies can’t write significant source code: The Knowledge Game and the Art of Computer Programming’, _Journal of Experimental & Theoretical Artificial Intelligence ._
  * Papadimitriou, C. H. (1994), Computational Complexity, Addison-Wesley.
  * Savage, J. E. (1998 _), Models of Computation: Exploring the Power of Computing_ , Addison-Wesley. 

* * *

### **Andrew Iliadis:** **What is Information Artifact Ontology?** **  
**

I consider the field of Information Artifact Ontology (IAO) a sub-field of
Philosophy of Information (PI). IAO is concerned with the informational
genesis of technological objects.

The most relevant work to be done in IAO comes from thinking the relationship
of a metaphysics of information to an ontology of the technical object. This
is where I situate my work on the philosopher Gilbert Simondon (1924 – 1989).
Relatively unknown during his lifetime outside of his native France, Simondon
prepared two theses on this subject that articulate a process where the
consequences of information produce technological change and that, I argue,
have much more to contribute to our understanding of technological genesis.
These works are _L’individuation à la lumière des notions de Forme et
d’Information_ and _Du mode d’existence des objets techniques_ , both defended
in 1958. Often, Simondon’s concepts are typically misread and grouped into a
combative category of thought to which I do not think they entirely belong.
Many have tried to situate Simondon as opposed to the mathematical theory of
communication to the extent that his theory bares absolutely no connection to
those of Shannon and Wiener. This would be a mistake. While Simondon was very
critical of both Shannon and Wiener, I think it would be incorrect to situate
him as being diametrically opposed. Rather, I believe Simondon thought
information as an entity in very much the same way as Shannon and Wiener;
however he described the entity that information is in terms of a different
type of process. The difference is not that Simondon saw information as a
“thing” differently from Shannon and Wiener, but that he envisioned it’s
interoperability in a different sense. If I continuously close and open one
eye and then the other it will produce each time a new effect where my
affective ocular sensibility changes with each “click” (this back and forth of
perspective is famously known as “parallax”). The objects in my visual field
clearly do not change when I perform this activity, but something else
certainly does, namely, the affect produced by each new percept. But does this
mean that these two pairings of affect/percept are two distinct entities? Not
at all. All that has changed is a mode of processing information. I understand
Simondon’s relationship to the mathematical theory of communication in very
much in the same way. The difference lies not in the “thing” but in its
process, its interoperability, and its functionality.

So how does the interoperability of information lead us to artifacts, to
technological objects, and finally to theorizing technological genesis? I
understand technology in terms of technique. If opening and closing my eyes is
a technique, then it is a type of technology. But in this example there is no
type of long-form genesis. How to explain the long-form genesis of technical
objects? Here Simondon proves eminently useful, but I believe it is necessary
to retain a word in the original French. Simondon’s concept of
_concrétisation_ , I claim, is more useful than the well-known concept of
individuation. Concrétisation is not quite like the English transitive verb
“concretization”. Concrétisation is an indefinite process that does not
indicate a “transfer” as if something had gone from one state (abstract) to
the next (physical), as concretization does. Concretization defines a specific
result. It is used in the way that I can say, simplistically, that I have
“given form to an idea”. Concrétisation, on the other hand, describes a
certain type of “pull”; it indicates what Simondon described as the “life” or
“being” of the technological object. But it is not a type of emergentism. The
reason it is not a type of emergentism is that the “sum” of concrétisation is
not greater than its parts; it does not connote something that at one point
never existed. To put it simply, it’s concrétisation “all the way down”.
Concrétisation is the engine that drives individuation.

So, what are the inherent qualities of concrétisation? There are two. The
first is that the technological object tends toward self-sufficiency. All this
means is that concrétisation is not an additive process, and that the
technological object tends to get smaller as it re-purposes elements within
itself. When I say that concrétisation is not additive and that it becomes
self-sufficient, this is due to Simondon’s second and more nuanced point, that
technological objects re-purpose themselves by an interoperability that is
achieved through the transduction of two regimes of information. What does
this mean? If I have a technical object “ab”, and I want it to do something
else, then I have to add “c” to it. This is not concrétisation but an additive
process. Concrétisation operates more along the lines of an algebraic
equation, not in the direction of the “plugging in” of numbers that happens
when we substitute variable functions with known quantities, but the reverse,
when we reduce the equation down to its simplest, abstract form. In this
sense, concrétisation is a rather counter-intuitive process. It does not tend
toward the “real” or concrete “thing” so much as it does toward the essence of
the technical object, which Simondon, contrary to claims made by many
commentators, described in terms of totality. Simondon provides countless
examples of just such a transcendental transductive principle throughout _Du
mode d’existence des objets techniques_ , moments in history where parts in
the technological object become useful in more ways than one, re-purposed, or
achieve a higher state of interoperability, and as a result help to move the
technological object along in its concrétisation toward a more abstract state
of being. But it should not be forgotten, and people do not talk about this
nearly enough, that information plays a fundamental role in this
concrétisation. If concrétisation is the engine that drives individuation,
then information is the gas that keeps concrétisation working.

IAO, then, sees all things as real, yet it acknowledges along with Simondon
that information is the methodological skeleton key that allows us to inquire
into “objects” in the first place.



![AHRC
logo](http://philosophyofinformation.net/WPI/5WPI/Home_files/droppedImage_2.jpg)

|

![UNESCO Chair
logo](data:image/png;base64,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)

|

![UH
logo](data:image/png;base64,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)  
  
---|---|---

