---
author: floridi
category: news
created: '2013-02-17'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/269/, /news/cfp/269-iacap-2013-annual-meeting-international-association-computing-and-philosophy/]
tags: [IACAP]
title: 'CFP: IACAP 2013, The Annual Meeting of the International Association for Computing
  and Philosophy'
---
## University of Maryland at College Park - July 15-17 2013

### "Minds, Machines and Morals"

This generation has borne witness to a veritable explosion in the use of
computing technologies in almost every aspect of life. Philosophers,
scientists, and technologists/engineers have an important role to play in
addressing the foundational questions that arise on the inexorable march
toward intelligent machines.  This year’s theme is “Minds, Machines and
Morals.”  Questions regarding the status of machines as moral agents and
patients press on us as we envision a future filled with self-driving cars,
robotic surgeons, health-care providers, and online computational surrogates.
According to what principles should they behave, if any?  How much autonomy
should they be granted, and how might they interact with human partners
before, during, and after engaging in action accompanied by moral
deliberation?  What is the nature of the folk concepts that drive our ordinary
ascriptions of blame and praise?  Is it necessary for machines to be sensitive
to the vicissitudes of human moral cognition in context, and if so, how might
these be computationally instantiated in systems built to work side-by-side
with people?  Finally, how can traditional moral philosophy contribute to this
emerging picture of human-machine interaction?  We encourage the submission of
novel work on these and related issues.  We remain especially interested in
the kind of interdisciplinary investigations that have been typical of our
meetings as we seek to reach out to cognitive scientists, neuroscientists,
social psychologists and experimental philosophers in further developing our
understanding of moral minds and moral machines. Work in other areas
traditionally of interest to the computing and philosophy community is invited
as well.

### Conference Organization and Important Dates

This year’s meeting will be organized somewhat differently than past meetings.
Rather than having a general call for symposia and an associated program
committee, we have decided to structure the meeting around three distinct yet
related tracks.  Each track will be organized and supervised by a dedicated
chairperson who will be responsible for managing the collection, review and
dissemination of referee reports.  Track chairs will assemble their own
program committees to assist in the adjudication of submissions.  In a change
from previous meetings, all submissions are to be full papers of approximately
3000 words and may not exceed 4000 words.  Improperly formatted submissions or
papers that do not meet submission guidelines will be subject to exclusion
from the review process.   Information regarding formatting and submission,
including templates and other formatting aides can be found in their
respective sections on the conference website.  Track descriptions and chairs
are listed below:

### **Track I** :  Information and Computing Ethics  
Chair: Mariarosaria Taddeo, Oxford University

In contemporary information societies, information technologies have grown to
the point of being indispensable for many of our activities, from working to
entertaining and interacting with others and with the environment, from
learning and education to waging war. The ubiquitous deployment of such
technologies raises important ethical problems concerning their design and
use. The track aims at gathering both papers discussing conceptual frameworks
to address such problems and papers focusing on the specific ethical issues
affecting contemporary information societies.

Main areas of interest are:

  * Security and warfare;
  * Individual rights;
  * Privacy and anonymity;
  * Personal identity;
  * Social interactions;
  * Education;
  * Economy;
  * Healthcare;
  * Technological design.

Link to the track’s individual website to be provided at a later date.

### **Track II** :  Minds and Machines  
Chair: Marcello Guarini, University of Windsor

The Society for Machines and Mentality, an IACAP special interest group, is
devoted to advancing the philosophical understanding of issues involving
artificial intelligence, philosophy, and cognitive science.  The Machines and
Mentality track chairs welcome philosophical papers in one or more of the
following areas:

  * Machine Ethics
  * Moral Cognition
  * Models of mental state ascription
  * Nature of concepts
  * Philosophy of (or in) AI
  * Philosophy of (or in) the Cognitive Sciences or Cognitive Modeling

Other work at the intersection of (i) philosophy and (ii) AI or the various
cognitive or psychological sciences

Link to the track’s individual website will be provided at a later date.

### **Track III** : Computing in Philosophy  
Chair: Cameron Buckner, University of Houston

This track is devoted to the ways that computers can extend our ability to
acquire, represent, understand, and distribute philosophical knowledge.  These
include the application of new methods of proof, representation, and
visualization to traditional philosophical questions, the use of new formal,
online, and distributed forms of research and publication, and the
possibilities digital representations of the discipline afford as a guide to
metaphilosophy. We welcome papers on the way that these new approaches are
transforming philosophy in the following areas:

  * Computational metaphysics
  * Computational epistemology
  * Digital archives and reference works
  * Cognition and visualization
  * Computing and art
  * Computing in the philosophy of information
  * Digital pedagogy and computer-enhanced instruction
  * Formal argument analysis and theories of reasons
  * Social computing and distributed philosophy
  * Computational metaphilosophy

Link to the track’s individual website will be provided at a later date.

### Keynote Speakers

  *  Shaun Nichols, University of Arizona 
  *  John Mikhail, Georgetown University
  *  John Horty, University of Maryland (TBD)
  * Winner: Covey Award 
  * Winner: Herbert A. Simon Award

### Important Dates

  * Call for papers distributed: December 10th 2012
  * Final submissions entered into Easychair website: March 15th 2013
  * Reviews due to track chairs: April 15th 2013
  * Notifications sent to authors:  May 1 2013
  * Standard registration period (TBD)
  * Late registration period (TBD)
  * Conference: July 15-17 2013

### Submission Website

Submissions will be handled through the EasyChair submission website.  Details
on the use of EasyChair will be provided as this website continues to be
updated.

### Resources for Authors

IACAP 2013 will rely on electronic submission of papers for review purposes.
Papers must not exceed 4000 words, including all figures, tables, and
references. We will return to the authors any submissions that exceed this
limit or that diverge significantly from the format as specified.  The text of
the paper should be formatted in one column, with an overall width of 6.0
inches (15.24 cm) and length of 8.0 inches (20.32 cm). The left margin should
be 1.25 inches (3.175 cm) and the top margin 1.5 inches (3.81 cm). The right
and bottom margins will depend on whether one prints on US letter or A4 paper.

The paper body should be set in 11 point type with a vertical spacing of 12
points. Please use Times Roman typeface throughout the text.  We assume that
authors will have access to LaTeX or Word to format their documents and can
use a Web browser to download style files and upload their papers. Electronic
templates for producing the camera-ready copy will be available shortly.

Authors who have questions about these templates or other formatting issues
should send them to pbellopgd@gmail.com by e-mail.

To ensure the ability to preview and print submissions, authors must provide
their manuscripts in pdf format. Papers prepared in Word should be saved as
pdf files and submitted in this format. To support the review process, each
submission must be accompanied by information about the paper’s title and
abstract, as well as the authors’ names and physical addresses. Authors must
enter this information into the submission website.  Submissions may be
accompanied by online appendices that contain data, demonstrations,
instructions for obtaining source code, or the source code itself. We
encourage authors to include such appendices when they submit papers. This
material will not count in the submission’s page length.

### Presentation Information and Guidelines

Each presenter will have 20 minutes for presentation, followed by 10 minutes
of discussion. Data projectors will be available – we ask presenters to bring
any electronic materials (e.g., Powerpoint or the like) on a USB memory stick,
rather than planning on using their own computers.  Presenters are encouraged
to use their time to highlight what they believe to be the most significant /
interesting / provocative (etc.) insights / findings / arguments (etc.) in
their papers, with a view towards inspiring discussion among an
interdisciplinary audience – i.e., one including those outside the presenters’
own primary specializations and disciplines.  More formal reading of papers is
certainly in order if that is the presenter’s preference – and especially if
difficult or complex arguments are to be presented for careful critique and
discussion. But again, we ask presenters to recognize and seek to foster the
strong interdisciplinarity that has defined the CAP conferences since their
inception.

### Venue: University of Maryland, Marriott Inn and Conference Center

The 2013 meeting will be held starting July 15th and ending July17th at the
Marriott Inn and Conference Center. Room rates are roughly expected to be $130
USD per night.  The hotel website can be found here, complete with links to
information about local airports and transportation options. We will be
regularly updating the website with information for travelers, maps, area
guides and information about local attractions.

### Registration

Rates are TBD (expected to be roughly $200 USD), but will include continental
breakfast, lunch selection, afternoon snack and hot/cold beverages throughout
the day.

