---
author: gprimiero
category: news
created: '2013-11-12'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/410/, /news/publications/410-emergent-information/]
tags: [Publication]
title: 'Publications: Emergent Information'
---
<http://www.worldscientific.com/worldscibooks/10.1142/7805>

At the dawn of the information age, a proper understanding of information and
how it relates to matter and energy is of utmost importance for the survival
of civilisation. Yet, attempts to reconcile information concepts underlying
science and technology with those en vogue in social science, humanities, and
arts are rather rare. This book offers a new approach, departing from
fragmented information concepts.

Many academics refrain from undergoing unifications, as most undertakings are
reductionistic. This book contends that it is the noble task of an as-yet-to-
be-developed science of information to go one step in the direction of a
unified theory of information without falling back into neither reduction nor
anthropomorphisation.

To be able to succeed in an ambitious task like this, the book advocates the
application of complex systems theory and its philosophical underpinnings.
Information needs to be interpreted in terms of self-organisation to do
justice to the richness of its manifestations. The way the book does so will
provide the reader with a deep insight into a basic feature of our world.

The following are discussed in the volume: A Science of Information; A New Way
of Thinking; Praxio-Onto-Epistemology; Evolutionary Systems Design;
Evolutionary Systems Ontology; Evolutionary Systems Methodology; Capurro's
Information Concept Trilemma; A Multi-Stage Model of Evolutionary Types of
Information: Pattern Formation, Code-Making, and Constituting Sense; A
Triple-C Model of Systemic Functions of Information: Cognising, Communicating,
and Co-Operating; Nine Categories of Information Capabilities: Reflectivity
(physical), Psyche (biotic), Consciousness (human); Connectivity (physical),
Signalability (biotic), Languageability (human); Cohesiveness (physical),
Coherency (biotic), Communitarity (human); Nine Categories of Information:
Response (physical), Flexible Response (biotic), Reflexion (human);
Correspondences (physical), Signals (biotic), Symbolic Acts (human);
Assemblage (physical), Assignment (biotic), Association (human); A Unified
Theory of Information for, about, and by means of the Information Society.

