---
author: mturilli
category: news
created: '2013-06-15'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/360/, /news/events/360-spt2013/]
tags: [conference, SPT, Philosophy of Technology]
title: 'Events: SPT2013'
---
**18th International Conference of the Society for Philosophy and Technology**  
ISEG, Technical University of Lisbon

**Programme**

http://www.spt2013.com/images/SPT2013_programme_14%2006%202013.pdf

**Conference Theme:** _Technology in the Age of Information_ **  
**

Reflecting on the emergence of information and communication technologies
(ICTs), several questions may be raised: How do our lives change in an
information society? What role do ICTs play in culture, politics, or social
revolutions? How do ICTs shape the global economy? What new challenges do ICTs
present to the public sphere and to individual privacy? How do ICTs affect
human cognition and aesthetic sensibilities? How are ICT converging with nano
and biotechnologies? Do ICTs stimulate ideas of new technological utopias?
Many other topics can be addressed and are welcome!

As in previous SPT conferences, contributions from variety of disciplines are
encouraged. Bringing together scholars and practitioners from a wide spectrum
of fields, who focus on understanding the relationship of technology and the
human condition is a goal of the conference. Showcasing contributions from
philosophers, social scientist, natural scientists, engineers, and policy
makers, SPT conferences provide lively and thought-provoking interdisciplinary
discussion.

**Venue  
**

SPT 2013 is hosted by the School of Economics and Management of the Technical
university of Lisbon (in Portuguese: Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão
da Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, ISEG-UTL)
([http://www.iseg.utl.pt](http://www.iseg.utl.pt/)).

Founded in 1911, ISEG is one of the most prestigious and experienced business
and economics schools in Portugal, and one of the three top-ranked
institutions in these fields of education at the undergraduate, graduate and
executive training levels.

The ISEG campus combines tradition and innovation and consist of five
buildings arranged into a fully integrated campus situated in the heart of the
city of Lisbon. The ISEG campus include the Inglesinhas Convent (Quelhas
building), the oldest ISEG building. The building constitutes the historical
symbol of the School, and has received national and international press
recognition for its architectonic style.

