---
author: floridi
category: news
created: '2013-02-17'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/264/]
tags: [postdoc]
title: 'Misc: Thirteen postdoctoral fellowships (in all areas), Bremen, Germany'
---
www.uni-bremen.de/en/post-doc

DEADLINE: 01:04:2013

Funded from the University's own Central Research Development Fund (CRDF) as
well as from the Marie Curie COFUND fellowship program, the University of
Bremen invites postdoctoral researchers (m/f) in the natural sciences,
engineering, social sciences and humanities to apply for one of 13
Postdoctoral Fellowships A32/13 Early career postdoctoral researchers (m/f)
(at most one year after having received their doctorate) are invited to apply
for a temporary position for up to two years. Fellows (m/f) will be enabled to
develop an independent research project and to write an application for
subsequent third-party funding.

Advanced postdoctoral researchers (m/f) (one to four years after having
received their doctorate) are offered positions for up to four years to
conduct independent research.

International postdoctoral researchers (m/f) (at most two years after having
received their doctorate) are encouraged to apply for a two-year BREMEN TRAC
incoming COFUND Fellowship to develop and implement an independent research
project. Applicants (m/f) can be of any nationality but at the time of
application, they must not have resided or carried out their main activity
(work, studies, etc.) in Germany for more than 12 months in the 3 years
immediately prior to the call deadline.

All fellows (m/f) can freely choose their research topic, but have to
demonstrate that their project fruitfully connects with one of the
University??s research areas. The University of Bremen offers an academic
environment ensuring that all fellows (m/f) will avail themselves of a broad
range of support measures testifying to Bremen??s reputation as a talent
incubator.

Postdoctoral fellows (m/f) will receive a competitive salary and a generous
budget for costs directly incurred by the project. Being an equal-opportunity
employer, the University awards at least half of the positions to women.

Applications must be submitted online by 1 April 2013.

For further information and contact details, please visit our website:

www.uni-bremen.de/en/post-doc

Applications from female candidates, international applications and
applications of academics (m/f) with a migration background are explicitly
welcome. Disabled persons (m/f) with the same professional and personal
qualifications will be given preference.

