---
author: mturilli
category: news
created: '2013-05-11'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/331/, /news/cfp/331-topoi-calls-papers-philosophy-information/]
tags: [TOPOI, Special Issue, CFP]
title: 'CFP: TOPOI - Calls For Papers: The Philosophy of Information '
---
## [TOPOI - An International Review of
Philosophy](http://www.springer.com/philosophy/journal/11245)

**Deadline for paper submissions: 1 August 2013.**

Guest Editors:

  * [Bert Baumgaertner](http://www-philosophy.ucdavis.edu/people/bbaum), UC Davies and University of Idaho
  * [Luciano Floridi](http://www.philosophyofinformation.net/Welcome.html), University of Hertfordshire and University of Oxford

## INTRODUCTION

The information revolution has been changing the world profoundly and
irreversibly for some time now, at a breathtaking pace, and with an
unprecedented scope, making the creation, management, and utilisation of
information vital issues. Such revolution has brought enormous benefits and
opportunities. However, it has also greatly outpaced our understanding of its
foundations and consequences, and raised conceptual issues that are rapidly
expanding, evolving, and becoming increasingly serious. Today, philosophy
faces the challenge of providing a foundational treatment of the concepts and
phenomena underlying the information revolution, in order to foster our
understanding and guide the responsible construction of our information
society. This challenge is met by the philosophy of information, a thriving
new area of research that investigates the conceptual nature and basic
principles of information, including its ethical consequences.

## THE ISSUE

The issue will contain a selection of the best papers presented at the 5th
Workshop on the Philosophy of Information, organised by the UNESCO Chair in
Information and Computer Ethics, in collaboration with the AHRC project
‘Understanding Information Quality Standards and their Challenges’ (2011-2013)
and Google UK. The issue will be open to contributions dealing with any
philosophical aspects of information, at the crossroads of epistemology,
metaphysics, logic, philosophy of science, semantics, and ethics.

## SUBMISSION PROCESS

All papers will be subject to double-blind peer-review, following
international standard practices. Manuscripts should be submitted exclusively
through the [Online Manuscript Submission System (Editorial
Manager)](http://www.editorialmanager.com/topo/). Please save your manuscript
in one of the formats supported by the system (e.g., Word, WordPerfect, RTF,
TXT, LaTeX2E, TeX, Postscript, etc.), which does NOT include PDF. Make sure to
select the appropriate article type for your submission by selecting
PHILOSOPHY OF INFORMATION as the appropriate tab from the scroll-down menu.

## For any further information please contact:

  * Luciano Floridi, l.floridi@herts.ac.uk or
  * Bert Baumgaertner bbaum@ucdavis.edu

