---
author: admin
category: news
created: '2013-10-08'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/399/, /news/publications/399-book-ethics-information/]
tags: [Information Ethics]
title: 'Publications: Book: The Ethics of Information '
---
The Ethics of Information (Luciano Floridi, Oxford University Press)

  * Establishes the direction of future work
  * Builds on over a decade of research by a leading expert in the field
  * Addresses key questions in central areas including bioethics, medical ethics, and environmental ethics

Luciano Floridi develops an original ethical framework for dealing with the
new challenges posed by Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs).
ICTs have profoundly changed many aspects of life, including the nature of
entertainment, work, communication, education, health care, industrial
production and business, social relations, and conflicts. They have had a
radical and widespread impact on our moral lives and on contemporary ethical
debates. Privacy, ownership, freedom of speech, responsibility, technological
determinism, the digital divide, and pornography online are only some of the
pressing issues that characterise the ethical discourse in the information
society. They are the subject of Information Ethics (IE), the new
philosophical area of research that investigates the ethical impact of ICTs on
human life and society.  
  
Since the seventies, IE has been a standard topic in many curricula. In recent
years, there has been a flourishing of new university courses, international
conferences, workshops, professional organizations, specialized periodicals
and research centres. However, investigations have so far been largely
influenced by professional and technical approaches, addressing mainly legal,
social, cultural and technological problems. This book is the first
philosophical monograph entirely and exclusively dedicated to it.  
  
Floridi lays down, for the first time, the conceptual foundations for IE. He
does so systematically, by pursuing three goals:  
  
a) a metatheoretical goal: it describes what IE is, its problems, approaches
and methods;  
b) an introductory goal: it helps the reader to gain a better grasp of the
complex and multifarious nature of the various concepts and phenomena related
to computer ethics;  
c) an analytic goal: it answers several key theoretical questions of great
philosophical interest, arising from the investigation of the ethical
implications of ICTs.  
  
Although entirely independent of The Philosophy of Information (OUP, 2011),
Floridi's previous book, The Ethics of Information complements it as new work
on the foundations of the philosophy of information.

**Readership:  **Scholars and advanced students of philosophy, computer
science, information theory, and related disciplines.

