---
author: mturilli
category: news
created: '2013-09-04'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/384/, /news/publications/384-fourth-revolution-how-infosphere-reshaping-human-reality/]
tags: [Luciano Floridi, ICT, Onlife, Infosphere, Revolution]
title: 'Publications: The Fourth Revolution - How the infosphere is reshaping human
  reality'
---
http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/academic/computers/9780199606726.do#.Uid7I7yE6ou

  * Considers the influence information and communication technologies (ICTs) are having on our world.
  * Describes some of the latest developments in ICTs and their use in a range of fields.
  * Argues that ICTs have become environmental forces that create and transform our realities.
  * Explores the impact of ICTs in a range of areas, from education and scientific research to social interaction, and even war.

Who are we, and how do we relate to each other? Luciano Floridi, one of the
leading figures in contemporary philosophy, argues that the explosive
developments in Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) is changing
the answer to these fundamental human questions.

As the boundaries between life online and offline break down, and we become
seamlessly connected to each other and surrounded by smart, responsive
objects, we are all becoming integrated into an "infosphere". Personas we
adopt in social media, for example, feed into our 'real' lives so that we
begin to live, as Floridi puts in, "onlife". Following those led by
Copernicus, Darwin, and Freud, this metaphysical shift represents nothing less
than a fourth revolution.

"Onlife" defines more and more of our daily activity - the way we shop, work,
learn, care for our health, entertain ourselves, conduct our relationships;
the way we interact with the worlds of law, finance, and politics; even the
way we conduct war. In every department of life, ICTs have become
environmental forces which are creating and transforming our realities. How
can we ensure that we shall reap their benefits? What are the implicit risks?
Are our technologies going to enable and empower us, or constrain us? Floridi
argues that we must expand our ecological and ethical approach to cover both
natural and man-made realities, putting the 'e' in an environmentalism that
can deal successfully with the new challenges posed by our digital
technologies and information society.

