---
author: fede22
category: news
created: '2013-04-30'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/317/]
tags: [PI workshop, Philosophy of Information]
title: 'Publications: Report: 5th Workshop on Philosophy of Information, University
  of Hertfordshire'
---
**From   _The Reasoner_ ,  **Volume 7, Number 5 - May 2013  ****

http://thereasoner.org/

**5 th Workshop on Philosophy of Information, University of Hertfordshire.**

The [fifth workshop on the Philosophy of
Information](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5) took place at the
University of Hertfordshire 27th to 28th March 2013, organised by the [UNESCO
Chair in Information and Computer
Ethics](http://www.philosophyofinformation.net/Welcome.html) in collaboration
with the AHRC project ‘[Understanding Information Quality Standards and their
Challenges](http://www.philosophyofinformation.net/IQ/AHRC_Information_Quality_Project/Home.html)’
(2011–2013).

The topic was the intersection between qualitative and quantitative views of
information. [Nineteen papers were
presented](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts) whose themes were
diverse yet united by the application of informational methods.

The keynote speaker, Dr Leonelli (Exeter) discussed _[Data integration and the
management of information in contemporary
biology](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#a27)._ In particular,
she reflected on what it means and takes to integrate data to acquire new
knowledge about biological entities and processes, focusing specifically on
the facilitating role of data-sharing tools. Continuing the biology theme,
[Russo ](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#b27)(Brussels and
Kent) and [Illari
](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#b27)(Hertfordshire and UCL)
argued that biomarkers research can be used as a test case for an
informational account of causality, illustrating how even in complex cases,
the idea of tracing a causal link could still be vital to the scientific
practice.

In an interesting perspective on consciousness Gamez (Sussex) considered
whether _“[Information or Data Patterns are Correlated with
Consciousness?](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#g27)”_ He
discussed howexperimental work on the correlates of consciousness is
attempting to identify the relationship between phenomenal and physical
states. While information integration is currently the only explicitly
informational theory of consciousness, other algorithms could be used to
identify information patterns in the brain that could be correlated with
consciousness.

Algorithms were also discussed by
[Gobbo](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#f27) (L’Aquila) and
[Benini ](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#f27)(Leeds) in their
co-authored paper on computational complexity bringing together an aspect of
information in Computer Science (CS) that is quantitative and qualitative at
the same time: measuring, an act that is often described as ‘describing a
phenomenon by a number’. Other papers that were concerned with modeling were
given by [Coghill
](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#c28)(Aberdeen) and [Antón
](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#m27)(Sevilla), while [Hamami
](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#n27)(Vrije) approached the
topic from a mathematical perspective

Two papers considered information security and individual rights. [Pym
](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#l27)(Aberdeen) argued that
information security is concerned with the protection of the attributes of
items of information that are of value to the owners, users, and stewards of
that information.
[Taddeo](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#i27)’s (Warwick)
paper addressed two challenging and ethical questions; namely, whether the
transformations engendered by the information revolution create the need for
individuals to claim new rights for themselves as agents living the onlife,
and what such rights should be. [Primiero
](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#h27)(Ghent) looked at
distrust and mistrust relations for privatively and modally qualified
information channels.

Many of the papers referenced the work on the philosophy of information
carried out by Floridi (Hertfordshire and Oxford). His paper, _[Maker’s
Knowledge and the synthetic
uninformative](http://socphilinfo.org/workshops/wpi5/abstracts#a28), _
soughtto understand what kind of knowledge this is as when Alice (knows or
rather) is informed (holds the information) that Bob’s coffee is sweetened
because she just put two spoons of sugar in it.

The Workshop demonstrated that the philosophy of information is a multi-
faceted and topical field of research, not only in itself, but also as a
conceptual framework for other established philosophical domains, allowing
elaboration from an informational perspective.

Interested readers can see all the abstracts on the website of [Society for
the Philosophy of Information (SPI)](http://www.socphilinfo.org/) and indeed,
may be inspired to join. Please visit <http://www.socphilinfo.org> for further
information.

**Penny Driscoll**

**PA to Prof Luciano Floridi**

**University of Hertfordshire**

