---
author: floridi
category: news
created: '2013-02-17'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/262/]
tags: [society and technology]
title: 'CFP: Society and technology: concepts and networks of relations'
---
We would like to invite abstracts for the panel Society and technology:
concepts and networks of relations which will take place during the conference
of the Polish Sociological Association in Szczecin in Poland, 11-14 September
2013. Deadline for the abstract submission is 20 February.

Contact persons:

  * Nawojczyk Maria, dr hab., Akademia Górniczo-Hutnicza – Wydział Humanistyczny w Krakowie, maria@list.pl, 
  * Lis Aleksandra, dr, Central European University w Budapeszcie, aleksandra.ola@gmail.com

Society and technology: concepts and networks of relations

It is difficult to image an analysis of contemporary societies without
referring to the occurring technological changes. The problem of how
technologies function in societies and the relation between them is a complex
one. We propose a broad definition of technologies as various mechanisms,
schemes, algorithms, devices and organizational arrangements that mediate
people’s interactions.  We take Bruno Latour’s definition of „technology as
society made durable” as a point of departure. This definition underlines the
role of technologies in stabilizing social processes and in mediating between
different parts of society. This definition also redefines and dismantles the
boundary between the „social” and the „technical” as being artificial. This
view on the relation between technology and society has been adopted and gave
fruitful results in organizational studies which examine “socio-technical
infrastructures” or „socio-technical systems”, sociology of markets examining
calculative socio-technical devices, social studies of environmental problems
analyzing various „socio-technical arrangements/agencements”. We would like to
stress that also our daily human-to-human relations are mediated through
various technologies, like: law, communication technologies, or medical
technologies. We have become hybrids and, at times, it seems arbitrary to say
where the human agency starts and technical agency ends. It has become
problematic to clearly distinguish who is the subject of various social
actions: humans, technologies or socio-technical dispositions?

We propose to reflect upon the following problems: is such a broad definition
of technology useful for social sciences? How does the Latourian definition of
technology differ from the sociological definition of an institution? How to
study various socio-technical infrastructures and how does it contribute to
the development of sociology as a discipline? How to theorize the division of
labour between humans and technology? What kind of technologies should occupy
a special place in the contemporary sociological analysis, and why? What roles
do technologies play in the social world? Do they mediate, translate,
stabilize of fold the social reality? Which one of these concepts actually
explains what is going on in contemporary societies and which one of them is a
mere rhetoric gimmick?

We call for contributions from various fields of social research:
communication, economic sociology, environmental sociology, sociology of law,
sociology and anthropology of everyday life, medical sociology and
anthropology, migration studies, institutional approaches, social change,
sociology of arts and science. We invite papers based on original research
that reflect on the contemporary approaches to the studies of technology.

With kind regards,

Aleksandra Lis



EASST's Eurograd mailing list

Eurograd@lists.easst.net

http://lists.easst.net/listinfo.cgi/eurograd-easst.net

Report abuses of this list to Eurograd-owner@lists.easst.net

