---
author: patrickallo
category: news
created: '2014-05-06'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/460/, /news/misc/460-member-spotlight-ken-herold/]
tags: [member in spotlight, LIS]
title: 'Misc: Member in spotlight: Ken Herold'
---
This is the third post in our series where we put a member of our society in
the spotlight, and allow them to introduce themselves on the basis of a short
interview.

## Interview with [Ken Herold](http://hamilton.academia.edu/KenHerold)

**Q:** The philosophy of information is a diverse field, and attracts people
with very different backgrounds. Could you tell us a bit more about your
academic background, and your current research?  
 **A:** I have a Master's in Library and Information Studies from Berkeley
('84) following my own diverse undergraduate study plan at Harvey Mudd College
(sciences) and then San Francisco State University (humanities). I had been
very fortunate to take the Mach-biographer, John Blackmore's course on the
Philosophical Foundations of Quantum Mechanics. Then the recently-founded
Center for Process Studies at Claremont hosted a symposium attended by Bohm,
Skinner, Pribram, Sperry, and others at which the principals insisted we
students be invited to sit just behind the main discussion table. At a break I
was introduced to Bohm and he essentially described the derivative nature of
time, about which I had been obsessing (and still do). Later I took a course
from Fritjof Capra, who dispelled my notions on general systems theory; and
another with SETI-researcher and visionary Charles Seeger. Since the computer
lab at Berkeley was still unfinished, my degree focussed on scholarly
communications and information retrieval in an old school, theoretical sense.
The next fork in the road was starting a family instead of PhD studies, but I
kept up over the next 15 years post-grad reading and research on the
philosophy of librarianship, such as it was, and the history of information
retrieval. Along the way, Stewart Brand evangelized us in San Francisco on the
coming online world. Then PI hit the scene for me in 2000, see the next
question.

My current research looks to Turing 1936-37 for insight on his relation of
intuition to computation, really the continuum from data to information. His
mathematical philosophy is quite opaque, really like asides and almost self-
commentary in the midst of that and following papers. I mine present research
on cognition and memory for clues. My California life and academics has been
particularly East-West laden, so my personal-professional study has been the
Tibetan diaspora and resulting boon to the world of its treasury of
philosophical and psychological texts. Robert Thurman at Columbia is a
sterling advocate for its scholarly significance. It certainly informs my
research and thoughts on a secular Buddhist information ethics.

**Q:** How did you learn about the philosophy of information? How does your
research fit in, and what is the impact of PI on your research.  
 **A:** I avidly consumed Luciano Floridi's 1999 monograph and recklessly
asked him why chapter 4 regaled national libraries but ignored Library and
Information Studies (LIS) as a source of theory! Yes, I am frequently blunt
and rude! He was very kind at my impertinence and this prompted me to become
an early pioneer for connecting PI and LIS. I began writing and attending the
Computing and Philosophy conferences, later meeting Luciano, and I was in the
audience for his stunning Open Questions lecture. I proposed an analogue set
for LIS in a very loose manner, my writing is obtuse and arcane, I am afraid.
Again in a blustering mood, I succeeded in proposing and delivering as editor
the 2004 special issue of Library Trends on PI, needlessly cajoling authors in
LIS to reply in some way to Floridi's challenge to our turf. Fortunately, the
volume was largely well-received and is employed in LIS programs, for which I
am truly grateful and humbled. A reprise issue is in preparation at the moment
for release in 2015. I also attended the first International Conference on PI
in China at Xi'an last year and will resume my tentative work presented there
soon.

**Q:** How do you envisage the future of PI within philosophy, within your own
field, and as part of the information society?  
 **A:** LIS has continued to be challenged by a world ravenous for guidance on
all areas of information study. I strongly believe PI is serving as a stimulus
for uniting discussions globally--from Wu Kun in China, Hjorland, Brier, the
FIS movement--and I hope including the new iSchool initiatives in LIS and our
new networked society beyond. This philosophical discourse can clarify the
multiple meanings of informational terminologies in each language, culture,
profession and industry. This will elevate our efforts, not to a single,
united information concept, but to a shared in-depth investigation of its
richness. As far as PI in philosophy, we must persevere to overcome our
fragmented academia to achieve an inclusive and opening environment for this
new onlife generation.

