---
author: gprimiero
category: news
created: '2014-01-03'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/421/, /news/publications/421-information-channels-and-biomarkers-disease/]
tags: [5WPI]
title: 'Publications: Information Channels and Biomarkers of Disease'
---
<http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11245-013-9228-1>

## Abstract

Current research in molecular epidemiology uses biomarkers to model the
different disease phases from environmental exposure, to early clinical
changes, to development of disease. The hope is to get a better understanding
of the causal impact of a number of pollutants and chemicals on several
diseases, including cancer and allergies. In a recent paper Russo and
Williamson (Med Stud, 2012) address the question of what evidential elements
enter the conceptualisation and modelling stages of this type of biomarkers
research. Recent research in causality has examined Ned Hall’s distinction
between two concepts of causality: production and dependence (Hall in
Causation and counterfactuals. MIT Press, Cambridge, pp 225–276, 2004). In
another recent paper, Illari (Philos Technol, p 20, 2011b) examined the
relatively under-explored production approach to causality, arguing that at
least one job of an account of causal production is to illuminate our
inferential practices concerning causal linking. Illari argued that an
informational account solves existing problems with traditional accounts. This
paper follows up this previous work by investigating the nature of the causal
links established in biomarkers research. We argue that traditional accounts
of productive causality are unable to provide a sensible account of the nature
of the causal link in biomarkers research, while an informational account is
very promising.

