---
author: vakarelov
category: news
created: '2015-06-20'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/512/, /news/events/512-iacap15-symposium-dynamics-and-computation-cognition-collaborative-approach/]
tags: [cognition, computation, dynamical systems]
title: "Events: IACAP\u201915 Symposium: Dynamics and Computation in Cognition \u2013\
  \ a Collaborative Approach"
---
## Event:

The Society for the Philosophy of Information, and [The Future of the
Information Society Research Group ](http://fisoc.org) at Duke University
organizes a IACAP'15 symposium on the topic: **Dynamics and Computation in
Cognition – a Collaborative Approach**

The symposiyum is generously sponsired by: [The Information Initiative at
Duke](http://bigdata.duke.edu/) (iID ) and [Imagination and Modal Cognition
Lab](http://www.felipedebrigard.com/)

## Program:

## **Randall Beer** (Indiana University – Bloomington)

**Title: Information Processing and Dynamics in Minimally Cognitive Agents**

Abstract: There has been considerable debate in the literature about the
relative merits of information processing versus dynamical approaches to
understanding cognitive processes. In this talk, we explore the relationship
between these two styles of explanation using a model agent evolved to solve a
relational categorization task. Specifically, we separately analyze the
operation of this agent using the mathematical tools of information theory and
dynamical systems theory. Information-theoretic analysis reveals how task-
relevant information flows through the system to be combined into a
categorization decision. Dynamical analysis reveals the key geometrical and
temporal interrelationships underlying the categorization decision. Finally,
we propose a framework for directly relating these two different styles of
explanation and discuss the possible implications of our analysis for some of
the ongoing debates in cognitive science.

## **  Gualtiero Piccinini** (University of Missouri – St. Louis)

**Title: Computation is Dynamical**

Abstract: The view that cognition is a form of dynamics is sometimes
contrasted with the view that cognition is a form of computation, as if the
two were mutually exclusive. But this is a false contrast. Computation is
dynamical too (in the relevant sense), although not every dynamical system is
computational (in the relevant sense). Therefore, the important question about
cognition is whether the dynamical system that constitutes the cognitive
system is computational. I argue that it is.

## **Felipe De Brigard** (Duke University)

**Title: Dynamical Cognitive Systems**

Abstract: The notion of “cognitive system” is widely used in explanations in
psychology and neuroscience. Traditional approaches define cognitive systems
in an agent-relative way, that is, via top-down functional decomposition that
assumes a cognitive agent as starting point. The extended cognition movement
challenged that approach by questioning the primacy of the notion of cognitive
agent. In response, Adams and Aizawa (2001) suggested that to have a clear
understanding of what a cognitive system is we may need to solve “the
demarcation challenge”: the problem of identifying a reliable way to determine
which mechanisms are causally responsible for the production of a certain
cognitive process do constitute a cognitive system responsible for such
process and which ones do not. Recently, Robert Rupert (2009; 2011) offered a
solution. In this talk I critically review Rupert’s solution and argue against
it. I also argue that a successful account of cognitive system must
accommodate the fact that the neural mechanisms causally responsible for the
production of a cognitive process are both dynamical and functionally stable.

