---
author: admin
category: news
created: '2015-04-20'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/509/, /news/publications/509-library-trends-exploring-philosophies-information/]
tags: [Philosophy of Information, library science, Special Issue]
title: 'Publications: Library Trends: Exploring Philosophies of Information'
---
Special issue of [Library
Trends](https://muse.jhu.edu/journals/library_trends/) edited by [Ken
Herold](https://hamilton.academia.edu/KenHerold).

Excerpt from the introduction:

> Librarians once were futurists. Our everyday activities hinged on a set of
practices and theories directed toward known, although distant, outcomes. What
was the term of our mandate to provide access to the cultural heritage in our
trust? Essentially forever. We included new media formats as a matter of
course, with necessary preservation, conservation, curation, and archiving.
Many and multivaried constraints strained our knowledge industries, yet our
vision embraced unprecedented growth in creation, acquisition, collection,
indexing, digesting, abstracting, finding, delivery, and research. Our group
intellectual capacity accommodated complexities of kind, scope, identity, and
audience. We could budget, plan, and serve despite limitations on funding,
cooperation, and support. Librarians understood one another globally, even as
libraries became known as repositories of things rather than as organizations
of people. Something happened along the way to the future: in sustaining our
status of authority, we became ubiquitous, and in our passion to extol our
mindset, we became universal.

>

> Perhaps everyone now speaks librarian as a lingua informatica. I am thinking
here beyond the librarian role in every form and equivalence, or similarly
that of the information specialist, in all our functions and services. I have
described this vast librarianship as the last of all disciplines to traverse
intellectual history and digest its contentsâ€”an awkward mixed metaphor that
hints at what has changed, perhaps fundamentally. The traverse has become
accelerated into a cycle of shared or common knowledge for which we are
companions and guides throughout. The future has no longer a certain distance,
where all participants are acting in concert, with every signal and message
communicating in the online/augmented reality. Or so goes the ideal wherein
the transparency is between minds and lives, and our information technologies
serve us and our purposes.

>

> Where the life-cycle model is tired and shopworn is in its over application
to things. The collective memory in real time does not equate to instant
agreement, nor to total uniformity. We mean to unify our informational lives
through tolerance, equal access, and equal opportunity in line with existing
library values. We require an interfacial literacy concomitant with what we
perceive as new understandings of those values. The following essays speak to
a thriving world community of interest in expounding the philosophical aspects
of information from, for, and within library and information science.

[More
information](https://muse.jhu.edu/journals/library_trends/toc/lib.63.3.html).

[Special issue on the same topic from
2004](https://www.ideals.illinois.edu/handle/2142/1034).

