---
author: gprimiero
category: news
created: '2015-03-23'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/507/, /news/cfp/507-hapoc-2015-8-11-october-2015-pisa/]
tags: [CFP, History and Philosophy of Computing]
title: 'CFP: HaPoC 2015, 8-11 October 2015, Pisa'
---
Call For Papers  
HaPoC 3: Third International Conference for the History and Philosophy of
Computing  
8 -- 11 October, 2015, Pisa  
hapoc2015.di.unipi.it

The DHST commission for the history and philosophy of computing
([www.hapoc.org](http://www.hapoc.org/)) is happy to announce the third HAPOC
conference. The series aims at creating an interdisciplinary focus on
computing, stimulating a dialogue between the historical and philosophical
viewpoints. To this end, the conference hopes to bring together researchers
interested in the historical developments of computing, as well as those
reflecting on the sociological and philosophical issues springing from the
rise and ubiquity of computing machines in the contemporary landscape. In the
past editions, the conference has successfully presented a variety of voices,
contributing to the creation of a fruitful dialogue between researchers with
different backgrounds and sensibilities.

For HaPoC 2015 we welcome contributions from historians and philosophers of
computing as well as from philosophically aware computer scientists and
mathematicians. Topics include but are not limited to  
• History and Philosophy of Computation (interpretation of the Church-Turing
thesis; models of computation; logical/mathematical foundations of computer
science; information theory...)  
• History and Philosophy of Programming (classes of programming languages;
philosophical status of programming...)  
• History and Philosophy of the Computer (from calculating machines to the
future of the computer; user interfaces; abstract architectures...)  
• History and Epistemology of the use of Computing in the sciences (simulation
vs. modelisation; computer-assisted proofs; linguistics...)  
• Computing and the Arts: historical and conceptual issues (temporality in
digital art; narration in interactive art work...)  
• Social, ethical and pedagogical aspects of Computing (pedagogy of computer
science; algorithms and copyright; Internet, culture, society...)

Our invited speakers are Nicola Angius (Università di Sassari, IT), Lenore
Blum (Carnagie Mellon University, USA), David Allan Grier (IEEE & George
Washington University, USA), Furio Honsell (Università di Udine, IT), Pierre
Mounier-Kuhn (CNRS & Université Paris-Sorbonne, F), and Franck Varenne
(Université de Rouen, F).

We cordially invite researchers working in a field relevant to the topics of
the conference to submit a short abstract of approximately 200 words and an
extended abstract of at most a 1000 words (references included) to
[www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hapoc2015](http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hapoc2015)

Abstracts must be written in English and anonymised. Please note that the
format of uploaded files must be either .pdf or .doc. In order to access the
submission page, an EasyChair account will be required. Please notice that
what is called “abstract” in the EasyChair “Title, Abstract and Other
Information” section corresponds to the short abstract of this call, and what
is called “paper” in the EasyChair “Upload Paper” section corresponds to the
extended abstract of this call.

Please check out the website of HaPoC 2015 for more information on the
conference
at[http://hapoc2015.sciencesconf.org](http://hapoc2015.sciencesconf.org/)

A post-proceedings volume is going to appear in the IFIP Advances in
Information and Communication Technology series, published by Springer.

IMPORTANT DATES:  
Submission deadline: June 19, 2015  
Notification of acceptance: July 19, 2015

The 2015 conference is located in Pisa, the cradle of Italian computer
science: here the first Italian computers were designed in the mid-Fifties and
the first Master course in informatics was established in 1969. The Museum of
Computing Machinery, part of the University of Pisa, shows some artefacts from
the early days of Italian CS, as well a selection of personal computing
machines. Besides its artistic attractions, among them the world-famous
leaning tower, during the days of the conference Pisa will host the Internet
Festival, devoted to all the aspects of the net
([www.internetfestival.it](http://www.internetfestival.it/))

