---
author: admin
category: news
created: '2015-12-20'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/520/, /news/cfp/520-special-issue-philosophy-and-technology-logic-technology-extended-deadline/]
tags: [Special Issue, logic, technology]
title: 'CFP: Special issue of Philosophy and Technology on "Logic as Technology" (Extended
  Deadline)'
---
**Deadline extended to 15 June 2016**

### Guest Editor

Patrick Allo (Oxford)

### Introduction

This special issue initiates Philosophy and Technology’s new subject area on
logic and technology by proposing to explore novel insights from the natural,
yet in philosophical contexts still uncommon juxtaposition of logic and
technology. Instead of considering questions regarding the philosophical
relevance of how logic is applied in technology (as witnessed by the role of
recursion theory, the foundation of computation, in logic), as a means to
reason about technology (reasoning about programs, security, etc.), or even
how technology is used to learn more about logic (e.g. with the help of
theorem-provers), we suggest to explore how our thinking about logic can be
shaped by our thinking about technology. This includes, first and foremost,
the suggestion that we can see logic as a technology by avoiding the common
restriction of technology to physical artefacts and the even more traditional
restriction of logic to symbolically formulated deductive systems. Abstract or
semantic artefacts are technologies, and logic is—like mathematics—a typical
example of such a technology.

The proposal to see logic as a technology emphasises the mutual interaction
between technology and philosophy, but also addresses the deeper issue that
the traditional scope of the philosophy of logic does not include influential
uses and applications of logic in or related to computer science, economics,
cognitive science, or linguistics, as central or essential uses of logic.
Indeed, the exclusive focus on logic as a universally applicable standard for
correct deductive reasoning, and the common suggestion that reasoning in the
vernacular is the notional domain of application for deductive logic, blocks
the development of a common understanding of logics as codifications of
validity and of logics as formal modelling tools.

A general header under which we can study logics as technologies starts from
the insight that logical systems and theories are (pick your preferred term)
developed, engineered or designed, and are often so with a particular
application in mind. Even when influenced or inspired by existing linguistic
and inferential practices, they are rarely the result of merely extracting the
formal structure of pre-existing rational ways of reasoning, arguing or
communicating. Many of their properties are, instead, best seen as the result
of design or modelling decisions.

Related worries about mainstream philosophy of logic have been voiced in many
different contexts, and can be tied to lines of inquiry in neighbouring
disciplines. With an explicit focus on logic, we find it whenever the practice
of conceptual analysis is explicitly approached in terms of conceptual and
scientific modelling (Floridi 2011, Löwe & Müller 2011), and requires us to
think explicitly about practical and theoretical trade-offs (Shapiro 2014).
The renewed interest in Carnapian explication (Carus 2008, Dutilh Novaes &
Reck 2015) further underscores this general development in contemporary
theoretical and formal philosophy, whereas insights from cognitive sciences
have led to specific studies of mathematics (De Cruz & De Smedt 2010, Netz
1999, Widom & Schlimm 2012) and logic (Dutilh Novaes 2012) as cognitive
technologies. Finally, a more critical side of this focus on how formal
languages are constructed can be found in Stokhof and van Lambalgen’s recent
analysis of the role of formal languages in contemporary linguistics.

### Topics

We welcome papers that explore the potential connections between logic and
technology, and further develop fruitful ways of technological thinking about
logic. This includes, but is not restricted to contributions that fall in one
of the following categories:

  1. Insights drawn from the history of logic, and inquiries into the historical grounds for seeing logic as an abstract artefact.
  2. Insights drawn from the philosophy of technology, and applications to logic of specific ways of looking at technology.
  3. Insights from the philosophy of the formal sciences, and from science and technology studies, including the philosophy of modelling, and the practice and foundations of programming.

### Timetable

**June 15, 2016: Deadline for paper submissions**  
August 15, 2016: Deadline reviews papers  
October 15, 2016: Deadline revised papers  
2017: Publication of the special issue

### Submission Details

To submit a paper for this special issue, authors should go to the journal’s
Editorial Manager <http://www.editorialmanager.com/phte/>

The author (or a corresponding author for each submission in case of co-
authored papers) must register into EM. The author must then select the
special article type: "SI on Logic as Technology” from the selection provided
in the submission process. This is needed in order to assign the submissions
to the Guest Editors.

Submissions will then be assessed according to the following procedure:

New Submission => Journal Editorial Office => Guest Editor(s) => Reviewers =>
Reviewers’ Recommendations => Guest Editor(s)’ Recommendation => Editor-in-
Chief’s Final Decision => Author Notification of the Decision. The process
will be reiterated in case of requests for revisions.

For any further information please contact: Patrick Allo
patrick.allo@oii.ox.ac.uk

