---
author: ken.herold.9
category: news
created: '2017-03-03'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/539/, /news/cfp/539-call-panelists-chinese-information-concepthistory-chinese-zhong-guo-xin-xi-gai-nian-yan/]
tags: [China, information science, History of PI]
title: 'CFP: Call for Panelists - Chinese Information Concept and History of Chinese
  IS'
---
**ASIS &T 80th Annual Meeting - Proposed Pre-Conference Workshop**

Washington D.C. (Crystal City, Virginia), USA | Oct. 27-Nov 1, 2017

Twenty seventeen (2017) is a special year for the Association for Information
Science & Technology (ASIS&T) as we are reaching an 80-year milestone of our
establishment. The theme of ASIS&T 2017 is focused on the diverse ways in
which people from different backgrounds, cultures, and disciplines forge
connections with each other, discover and use information, and engage with
technology. The ASIS&T Annual Meeting is a premier, peer-reviewed
international conference that gathers scholars and practitioners from around
the globe to share research, innovations, and insights regarding how
information and technology mediate the creation and use of knowledge within
and across cultures and enhance lives.

**中国信息概念研究小** **组**

Central focus for the workshop panels are the development of the Chinese
information concept and its manifestation in documentation and library
science, information science, and information philosophy. Some researchers of
note (not intending to be exclusive in any way) include QIAN XUESEN, ZHONG
YIXIN, WU KUN, and YAN XUESHAN, among others. Some background works (again,
not exclusive):

ZHOU, JINLONG; WANG, CHUANQING; ZHAO, XIN. 2008. An Overview on the
Development of Chinese Library and Information Science Journals. Chinese
Journal of Library and Information Science (Quarterly). 2008, 1(2):63-80.
ISSN: 1674-3393.

LU, TAIHONG. 1990. Four Milestones in the Development of Information Science.
Journal of the China's Society for Scientific and Technical Information. 1990
October; 9(5): 394-400. (In Chinese; English abstract).

LU, TAIHONG. 1991. The Evolution and Trends of MIS. Information Science
(China). 1991; 12(4): 53-60. (In Chinese). ISSN: 1000-8489.

YAN, YIMIN. 1989. The Development of Theories in Information in China:
1949-1989. Libraries & Information (China). 1989; 3: 1-6. (In Chinese).

Under the sponsorship of ASIS&T’s Special Interest Group on the History and
Foundations of Information Science, we are looking for panelists to contribute
to a day of workshops in a pre-conference setting.  Proposals should be
written in English (300-500 words) describing your scholarly interest and
intention to attend at least the pre-conference event if your proposal is
accepted.  There is no support for fees, accommodations, or travel—all costs
are the responsibility of attendee-panelists.  Scholars are encouraged to make
submissions to the main Annual Meeting proceedings as well.

Proposals and questions to:  [kherold@adelphi.edu](mailto:kherold@adelphi.edu)
**Please submit by  March 31, 2017**



Ken Herold, Associate Dean of Libraries, Adelphi University, USA

Chair, ASIS&T SIG/HFIS 2015-2017

