---
author: Mariarosaria Taddeo
category: news
created: '2013-10-12'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/400/, /news/cfp/400-cepe-2014/]
tags: [Computer Ethics, conference]
title: 'CFP: CEPE-2014'
---
## **CEPE 2014 – Well-Being, Flourishing, and ICTs  **

Conference website: <http://cepe2014.org>

Ethicomp and CEPE are major conferences in the field of computer/information
ethics. Previous CEPE conferences themes include intercultural ethics,
roboethics, social impacts of social computing, socio-technical and ethical
change in ICTs, and social responsibility and ICTs. ETHICOMP, the conference
series initiated in 1995 by Simon Rogerson and Terry Bynum, has likewise
focused on the ethical dimensions of computing technologies. To support the
missions of each entity, while providing a robust opportunity for innovative
collaborative research and scholarship, Ethicomp and CEPE will partner in
2014.

Our joint conferences will be hosted by CERNA (Commission de réflexion sur
l’Ethique de la Recherche en sciences et technologies du Numérique
d’Allistene).

As well, the overlap day between the two conferences (Wednesday, July 25) is
co-sponsored by ACM SIGCAS (Special Interest Group, Computers and Society),
and will focus on gender and technology.

### **Background**

Norbert Wiener’s The Human Use of Human Beings: Cybernetics and Society (1950)
is a primary source for contemporary Information and Computing Ethics. Wiener
framed his reflections on the possible uses and benefits of then newly
emerging computational devices and networks within the key ethical norms of
human well-being and flourishing – the core norms of virtue ethics.
Contemporary computers and computer networks increasingly pervade and shape
our lives, dramatically enhancing our communication capacities: they thereby
foreground and amplify “the networked self,” i.e., our sense of selfhood,
identity, and agency (including moral agency) as increasingly relational and
interwoven with one another.  Such relational senses of identity, selfhood and
agency are in fact the beginning point of virtue ethics in its diverse
expressions and traditions globally.  Wiener’s foundational framework has thus
proven to be profoundly prescient.

 But certainly, there are multiple ethical frameworks within which questions
of “the good life” – as focusing on our well-being and flourishing as human
beings – may be couched. At the same time, alongside the undeniable boons of
ICTs – recent developments such as the NSA surveillance scandals make critical
reflection on the ethical, social, and political dimensions of contemporary
ICTs and their array of uses all the more urgent.

Accordingly, for CEPE’14 we invite submissions – including panels – that
address these core concerns with well-being and flourishing in an age of ICTs.
We encourage research and reflection that approach these thematics from a wide
array of viewpoints and with attention to specific foci including:

  * ICTs and development
  * technosecurity and cyber-warfare
  * robots and robot ethics for humans and humane lives;
  * social computing
  * global / cultural perspectives on ICTs and the good life

## Important Dates

**30 November 2013**      Latest date to submit abstracts to Easychair

**25 January 2014**              Authors informed of programme committee
decisions by this date

**5 April 2014**                        Last date for receipt of full papers
from authors (electronic version)



### **Panels**

  1. **Submission** due: December 15th, 2013
  2. **Selection** : February 15th, 2014

Submissions will be accepted via Easychair:
<https://www.easychair.org/conferences/submission_new.cgi?a=5138535>

