---
author: patrickallo
category: news
created: '2013-10-08'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/397/, /news/publications/397-classic-text-pi-sciences-artificial/]
tags: [classic text, Herbert Simon, artificial]
title: 'Publications: [Classic Text in PI] "The Sciences of the Artificial"'
---
The  _Sciences of the Artificial_ is based on [Herber
Simon](http://diva.library.cmu.edu/Simon/)'s  Karl Taylor Compton lectures at
the MIT in 1968 and H. Rowan Gaither lectures at Berkeley in 1980. The
following quote is taken from the first chapter titled  _Understanding the
Natural and the Artificial Worlds._

> The world we live in today is much more a man-made, or artificial, world
than it is a natural world. Almost every element in our environment shows
evidence of human artifice. The temperature in which we spend most of our
hours is kept artificially at 20 degrees Celsius; the humidity is added to or
taken from the air we breathe; and the impurities we inhale are largely
produced (and filtered) by man.

>

> Moreover for most of us the white-collared ones the significant part of the
environment consists mostly of strings of artifacts called "symbols" that we
receive through eyes and ears in the form of written and spoken language and
that we pour out into the environment as I am now doing by mouth or hand. The
laws that govern these strings of symbols, the laws that govern the occasions
on which we emit and receive them, the determinants of their content are all
consequences of our collective artifice.

I particularly like this passage:

> Natural science impinges on an artifact through two of the three terms of
the relation that characterizes it: the structure of the artifact itself and
the environment in which it performs. Whether a clock will in fact tell time
depends on its internal construction and where it is placed. Whether a knife
will cut depends on the material of its blade and the hardness of the
substance to which it is applied. (...)

>

> We can view the matter quite symmetrically. An artifact can be thought of as
a meeting point an "interface" in today's terms between an "inner"
environment, the substance and organization of the artifact itself, and an
''outer" environment, the surroundings in which it operates. If the inner
environment is appropriate to the outer environment, or vice versa, the
artifact will serve its intended purpose. Thus, if the clock is immune to
buffeting, it will serve as a ship's chronometer. (And conversely, if it
isn't, we may salvage it by mounting it on the mantel at home.)

Reference: Herbert A. Simon  _The Sciences of the Artificial_. Third Ed., MIT,
1996. (first published in 1969)

