---
author: admin
category: news
created: '2014-12-05'
layout: post
redirect_from: [/node/488/, /news/misc/488-award-ongoing-doctoral-dissertation-research-philosophy-information/]
tags: [award]
title: 'Misc: Award for Ongoing Doctoral Dissertation Research in the Philosophy of
  Information'
---
### 1\. Nature of the Award

The award shall consist of $1,000, given annually to a graduate student who is
working on a dissertation on the philosophy of information (broadly
construed). As we see it, the range of philosophical questions relating to
information is broad, and approachable through a variety of philosophical
traditions (philosophy of mind, logic, philosophy of information so-called,
philosophy of science, etc.).

### 2\. Purpose of the Award

The purpose of this award is to encourage and support scholarship in the
philosophy of information.

### 3\. Eligibility

3.1 The scholarship recipient must meet the following qualifications:

(a) Be an active doctoral student whose primary area of research is directly
philosophical, whether the institutional setting is philosophy or another
discipline; that is to say, the mode of dissertation research must be
philosophical as opposed to empirical or literary study;

(b) Have completed all course work; and

(c) Have had a dissertation proposal accepted by the institution.

3.2 Recipients may receive the award not more than once.

### 4\. Administration

The Litwin Books Award for Ongoing Doctoral Dissertation Research in the
Philosophy of Information is sponsored and administered by Litwin Books, LLC,
an independent scholarly publisher.

### 5\. Nominations

5.1 Nominations should be submitted via email by June 1, 2015, to
[award@litwinbooks.com](mailto:award@litwinbooks.com).

5.2 The submission package should include the following:

(a) The accepted dissertation proposal;

(b) A description of the work done to date;

(c) A letter of recommendation from a dissertation committee member;

(d) An up-to-date curriculum vitae with current contact information.

### 6\. Selection of the Awardee

Submissions will be judged on merit with emphasis on the following:

(a) Clarity of thought;

(b) Originality;

(c) Relevance to our time;

(d) Evidence of good progress toward completion.

### 7\. Notification

The winner and any honorable mentions will be notified via letter by July 1,
2015.

### Advisory Board

Jonathan Furner, Graduate School of Education and Information Studies, UCLA

Ron Day, School of Library and Information Science, Indiana University

John Budd, School of Information & Learning Technologies, University of
Missouri

### Past Winners

2014: Patrick Gavin, of the University of Western Ontario FIMS, for his
dissertation propsoal, titled, "On Informationalized Borderzones: A Study in
the Politics and Ethics of Emerging Border Architectures."

2013: Steve McKinlay, of Charles Sturt University, New South Wales, Australia,
for his dissertation proposal, titled, "Information Ethics and the Problem of
Reference."

